



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                             3 July 2026
Expires: 4 January 2027


                   OAuth Actor Chain Authority Bounds
          draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-authority-bounds-latest

Abstract

   This document defines OAuth Actor Chain Authority Bounds, an optional
   companion profile for delegated OAuth tokens that conform to the
   OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation and carry actor receipts.  It
   introduces the bounds and reauthorized receipt claims, which record
   the authority values in effect at each visible actor hop, and cross-
   receipt verification rules under which governed authority dimensions
   (scope, resource, and authorization_details, with aud recordable) do
   not expand across hops except at explicit, signed re-authorization
   events.  Re-authorization between hops is carried in a bounds_events
   array of signed event JWTs.  This document also defines an issuer
   self-attestation claim, and metadata and introspection parameters for
   advertising and consuming authority-bounds support.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile/
   draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-authority-bounds.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
   authority-bounds/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (mailto:oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 4 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Relationship to the Receipts Companion
   4.  Design Goals and Non-Goals
     4.1.  Deployment Fit
   5.  Authority Bounds Overview
   6.  Governed Dimensions and Comparison Rules
     6.1.  scope
     6.2.  aud and Audience Governance
     6.3.  resource
     6.4.  authorization_details
     6.5.  Dimensions Explicitly Not Governed
   7.  Receipt Extension Claims
     7.1.  The bounds Claim
     7.2.  The reauthorized Claim
   8.  Bounds Events
     8.1.  The bounds_events and bounds_events_complete Claims
     8.2.  Bounds-Event JWT Format
     8.3.  Event Lifecycle
   9.  Issuer Self-Attestation
   10. Issuer Processing
     10.1.  Recording Bounds at a New Hop
     10.2.  Reissuance and Refresh Without a New Hop
     10.3.  Domain Transitions
     10.4.  Partial and Sparse Coverage
   11. Consumer Processing
     11.1.  Composition with Actor-Signed Hop Proofs
     11.2.  Use by Resource Servers
     11.3.  Introspection
   12. Discovery and Capability Signaling
     12.1.  Authorization Server Metadata
     12.2.  Protected Resource Metadata
     12.3.  Introspection Response Members
   13. Error Handling
   14. Extensibility
   15. Security Considerations
     15.1.  Threat Model
       15.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile
       15.1.2.  Adversaries NOT Mitigated
       15.1.3.  Trust Model Summary
     15.2.  Issuer Self-Attestation Limits
     15.3.  Re-Authorization Abuse
     15.4.  Scope Subsumption Gaps
     15.5.  Recorded Values and Token Reality
     15.6.  Event Chain Size and Retention
   16. Privacy Considerations
   17. IANA Considerations
     17.1.  Media Type Registration
     17.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration
     17.3.  OAuth Actor Authority Bounds Dimensions Registry
     17.4.  OAuth Actor Re-Authorization Methods Registry
     17.5.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration
     17.6.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration
     17.7.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration
   18. Acknowledgments
   19. References
     19.1.  Normative References
     19.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Examples
     A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Chain with Narrowing Bounds
     A.2.  Example: Refresh Widening Recorded as a Bounds Event
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] makes actor identity visible in
   delegated tokens.  The OAuth Actor Receipts companion
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] adds issuer-signed per-hop provenance, and the OAuth
   Actor-Signed Hop Proofs companion [ACTOR-PROOFS] adds actor-signed
   participation evidence.  None of these constrain how authority
   changes across hops: OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange [RFC8693] permits each
   issued token to carry different scope, aud, resource, and
   authorization_details values from its inbound credentials, subject
   only to local policy, and the receipts companion explicitly declares
   historical authority a non-goal.  A recipient can therefore verify
   who participated at every hop while remaining unable to detect that
   an intermediate issuer silently widened the authority flowing through
   the chain.

   This document defines OAuth Actor Chain Authority Bounds, an optional
   companion profile that closes that gap for deployments that use actor
   receipts.  Each receipt records the authority values in effect at its
   hop; recipients verify offline that governed dimensions never
   expanded across the chain except at explicit, signed re-authorization
   events.  The design center is:

   *  keep the visible actor chain in act and per-hop provenance in
      actor_receipts;

   *  carry per-hop authority values as receipt claims, so they inherit
      the receipt issuer's signature and the receipt chain's integrity;

   *  make authority expansion an explicit, signed, auditable event
      rather than a silent state change.

   Bounds add receipt extension claims, one outer-token event array, one
   outer-token self-attestation claim, and a small set of metadata
   signals; deployments opt in per resource server or per trust domain.
   Scope is detailed in Design Goals and Non-Goals (Section 4).

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   Unless otherwise specified, OAuth terms such as client, authorization
   server, resource server, access token, refresh token, grant,
   subject_token, and actor_token are used as defined in [RFC6749] and
   [RFC8693].  Actor Receipt, Receipt Chain, and Outer Token are used as
   defined in [ACTOR-RECEIPTS].

   The following terms are used in this document:

   Governed Dimension:  An authority dimension whose per-hop values are
      recorded and compared under this profile.  This document defines
      four: scope, aud, resource, and authorization_details.

   Monotonic Dimension:  A governed dimension whose recorded values are
      required not to expand across hops.  scope, resource, and
      authorization_details are monotonic by default; aud is recorded
      but not monotonic by default (see Section 6.2).

   Authority Bounds:  The values of governed dimensions in effect for
      the token issued at a given hop, recorded in the receipt's bounds
      claim.

   Re-Authorization Event:  An explicit event in which an authorized
      principal consents to new, possibly broader, authority.  Recorded
      either in a receipt's reauthorized claim (when the event coincides
      with a new actor hop) or in a bounds_events entry (when it does
      not).

   Monotonicity Basis:  The point in the chain from which non-expansion
      is measured.  The origin hop is the initial basis; each re-
      authorization event establishes a new basis.

   Effective Upper Bound:  For a given dimension and comparison point,
      the value that the newer artifact's authority must not exceed: the
      older receipt's recorded bound, as superseded by any re-
      authorization events anchored to that receipt (Section 11).

   Dense Coverage:  A condition in which every receipt in the chain
      carries bounds for a given dimension, so that monotonicity for
      that dimension is verified across every adjacency.

   Examples in this document are illustrative and omit unrelated claims,
   signatures, and validation steps that a complete deployment would
   need.

3.  Relationship to the Receipts Companion

   This document is an extension of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] and uses three of
   its declared extension surfaces:

   *  *Per-receipt extension claims*: bounds and reauthorized are
      carried inside receipt JWTs and inherit the receipt issuer's
      signature, per the receipts companion's extension-claims rule.

   *  *Cross-receipt verification rules*: monotonicity is verified by
      comparing claims across receipts in the chain, per the receipts
      companion's authoring rule for cross-receipt rules, and tolerates
      sparse coverage as that rule requires.

   *  *Non-hop event artifacts*: bounds_events follows the receipts
      companion's non-hop event artifact pattern, with a distinct typ
      value and anchoring by receipt jti.

   The receipts companion's chain-linkage, byte-preservation, partial-
   coverage, and originating-issuance rules apply unchanged.  This
   document does not alter how receipts are signed, linked, or carried,
   and receipts without bounds claims remain valid under
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS].

   Receipt-attested bounds are meaningful only within a validated
   receipt chain.  A token without actor_receipts can carry only the
   issuer self-attestation defined in Section 9, which is a weaker
   signal (Section 15).

4.  Design Goals and Non-Goals

   The goals of this document are:

   *  record the authority values in effect at each receipt-covered hop,
      signed by that hop's issuer;

   *  let recipients verify offline that monotonic dimensions never
      expanded across the covered chain except at explicit re-
      authorization events;

   *  make re-authorization a signed, anchored, ordered artifact rather
      than an out-of-band assumption, including re-authorization that
      occurs between hops;

   *  compose with the receipts companion's coverage, disclosure, and
      introspection machinery, and with the proofs companion's actor-
      consented target bindings;

   *  support progressive deployment, including sparse per-dimension
      coverage.

   The non-goals of this document are:

   *  interpreting scope grammars: comparison is syntactic set
      membership, and semantic subsumption is out of scope
      (Section 6.1);

   *  constraining the origin issuer's initial authority choice; no
      upstream value exists to compare against;

   *  defining cross-domain equivalence of authority vocabularies; a
      trust-domain boundary is an explicit basis reset (Section 10.3);

   *  asserting that recorded authority remains active, authorized, or
      acceptable under current policy;

   *  governing exp, cnf, sub, or sub_profile, which are lifecycle,
      presenter, and identity concerns handled by the base profiles;

   *  replacing current-token authorization at the resource server.

4.1.  Deployment Fit

   The monotonicity property is strongest where authority vocabularies
   are shared: multi-hop delegation chains within one trust domain,
   where every issuer draws scope, resource, and authorization_details
   values from the same registry.  That is the dominant shape of multi-
   hop AI-agent and workload chains today, and it is the deployment this
   profile serves best.

   At trust-domain boundaries, authority vocabularies change and
   syntactic comparison loses meaning; this profile handles such hops as
   explicit basis resets (Section 10.3) rather than pretending cross-
   domain comparability.  Deployments whose chains cross domains at
   every hop gain recording and audit value from this profile but little
   enforcement value.

   The headline mitigation, detecting an intermediate issuer that
   silently widens authority, is conditional on dense coverage for the
   dimension in question: a compromised hop adjacent to hops that do not
   record bounds is not detectable by chain verification alone
   (Section 15.1).  Deployments that need the mitigation enforce dense
   coverage through the metadata defined in Section 12.

5.  Authority Bounds Overview

   An issuer that adds an actor hop and supports this profile records,
   inside the receipt it signs for that hop, the authority values it
   applied to the issued token.  Recipients walk the validated receipt
   chain from oldest to newest, comparing recorded values for each
   governed dimension:

   *  values may narrow or stay the same across each adjacency;

   *  values may not expand, unless a signed re-authorization event
      establishes a new basis;

   *  the current outer token's values may narrow further relative to
      the newest recorded bounds, but may not expand.

   Two artifacts carry re-authorization:

   *  *reauthorized receipt claim*: for expansion that coincides with a
      new actor hop; carried on the new receipt, signed by the hop's
      issuer.

   *  *bounds_events outer-token array*: for expansion between hops (a
      refresh grant with broader scope, a step-up mid-flow, an approver
      widening a governing authority object); each event is a signed JWT
      anchored to the receipt whose issued authority it supersedes, and
      events are hash-chained so their order is cryptographic.

   Bounds are historical authority records, not authority transfer.  A
   verified monotonic chain documents that recorded authority never
   widened; it does not by itself convey authority, prove the recorded
   values remain acceptable, or replace evaluation of the current outer
   token under current policy.

6.  Governed Dimensions and Comparison Rules

   This section defines the four governed dimensions and the comparison
   rule for each.  Consumer verification (Section 11) applies these
   rules.  A comparison is evaluated only when both compared values are
   present; absence of a recorded bound is missing evidence, not a
   successful comparison (Section 7.1).

6.1.  scope

   The scope dimension records the space-separated scope string of
   [RFC6749] Section 3.3.  Comparison:

   *  parse both values into sets of distinct scope tokens (separator:
      ASCII space, U+0020);

   *  scope_a is within scope_b if and only if every token in scope_a is
      also in scope_b;

   *  the empty string is the empty set and is within every scope set.

   Comparison is syntactic set membership only.  This profile does NOT
   interpret scope-language semantics: it cannot determine that
   read:user/* subsumes read:user/123, and it cannot detect that a
   lexically new token such as admin:read:all semantically broadens
   read:user (Section 15.4).  Issuers MUST emit the explicit, narrowest
   scope at each hop rather than relying on grammar-dependent
   subsumption.

6.2.  aud and Audience Governance

   The aud dimension records the audience of the token issued at the
   hop, as a string or array of strings with the value space of
   [RFC7519] Section 4.1.3.  Comparison treats a single string as a one-
   element set; aud_a is within aud_b if and only if every value in
   aud_a is in aud_b.

   Unlike the other governed dimensions, aud is recorded but NOT
   monotonic by default.  Retargeting the audience at an exchange hop is
   the normal purpose of [RFC8693]: a token issued for one resource
   server is exchanged for a token addressed to another, and requiring
   the new audience to be a subset of the old would reject mainstream
   token-exchange usage.  Recording without enforcement still has value:
   the chain of recorded audiences is audit evidence of where authority
   traveled, and the proofs cross-check in Section 11.1 compares
   recorded audiences against actor-consented targets.

   A deployment whose chains do not retarget, or that treats retargeting
   as a policy-controlled event, MAY declare aud governance through the
   metadata in Section 12 or local policy.  When aud is governed, the
   monotonicity rules of Section 11 apply to it exactly as to the
   monotonic dimensions, and a legitimate retargeting hop MUST be
   recorded as a re-authorization event (Section 7.2) or the chain fails
   verification.

6.3.  resource

   The resource dimension records the effective resource-indicator set
   the issuer applied when shaping the token, with the value space of
   the resource request parameter of [RFC8707]: an array of absolute URI
   strings.  [RFC8707] defines resource as a request parameter rather
   than a token claim; bounds.resource records the applied set whether
   or not the token format carries a corresponding claim.

   Comparison:

   *  compare URIs by canonical form per [RFC3986] Section 6.2;
      implementations SHOULD apply case normalization for scheme and
      host, percent-encoding normalization, and path-segment
      normalization before comparison;

   *  resource_a is within resource_b if and only if every canonical URI
      in resource_a is also in resource_b;

   *  an empty array is the empty set and is within every resource set.

   URI prefix subsumption (for example, treating
   https://api.example.com/v1/ as covering https://api.example.com/v1/
   users) is NOT applied.  Issuers wishing to express prefix
   relationships MUST emit explicit URIs at each hop.

6.4.  authorization_details

   The authorization_details dimension records the Rich Authorization
   Requests array of [RFC9396].  Refinement is per-object and per-type:

   *  an array ad_a refines ad_b if and only if every object in ad_a
      refines some object in ad_b; objects present in ad_b but absent
      from ad_a represent narrowing and are permitted; objects in ad_a
      that refine no object in ad_b represent expansion and fail the
      comparison;

   *  two objects refine only when they share the same type;

   *  for the common members defined by [RFC9396], refinement requires:
      actions a subset, locations a subset under the URI rules of
      Section 6.3, datatypes a subset, and identifier equal.

   Type-specific members beyond those four have no normative refinement
   rules in this document.  When a compared object carries type-specific
   members the recipient cannot evaluate, the recipient MUST either
   reject the bounds verification for the dimension (the default) or
   skip refinement for that object under explicit local policy.
   Specifications that define RAR types SHOULD define refinement rules
   for their members; the extensibility rules in Section 14 cover how
   such rules attach to this profile.

6.5.  Dimensions Explicitly Not Governed

   exp is lifecycle, governed by the receipts companion's expiry rules.
   cnf is presenter binding; rebinding at a Transaction Token Service
   hop is legitimate and not an authority change.  sub is constrained by
   the receipts companion's subject-alignment rules.  sub_profile is
   classification, not authority.  This document governs none of them.

7.  Receipt Extension Claims

   This section defines two extension claims for Actor Receipt JWTs,
   under the extension-claims rule of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS].  Both inherit
   the receipt's signature and byte-preservation.

7.1.  The bounds Claim

   bounds:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object recording the authority bounds in
      effect for the token issued at this hop.  Members correspond to
      the governed dimensions:

      *  scope: a string of space-separated scope tokens;

      *  aud: a string or array of strings;

      *  resource: an array of URI strings;

      *  authorization_details: an array of [RFC9396] objects.

      Each member, when present, MUST equal the corresponding effective
      value applied to the token issued at this hop: for scope, aud, and
      authorization_details, ordinarily the issued token's top-level
      claim of the same name; for resource, the resource-indicator set
      the issuer applied whether or not the token carries a claim.

      An absent member means the issuer did not record that dimension in
      this receipt.  It does not attest that the dimension was
      unconstrained, absent, or unchanged; recipients MUST treat an
      absent bounds member as missing evidence for that dimension at
      that hop.  Additional members MAY be defined through the dimension
      registry established in Section 17.3; consumers MUST ignore
      unrecognized members unless a specification or local agreement
      defines their comparison rule.

   A receipt MAY omit bounds entirely, and a chain MAY mix receipts with
   and without it.  Consumer processing defines both sparse verification
   and dense enforcement (Section 11).

7.2.  The reauthorized Claim

   reauthorized:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object recording that the authority
      issued at this hop was expanded relative to the inbound authority
      under an explicit re-authorization.  Members:

      sub:  REQUIRED.  Identifier of the principal that re-authorized
         the delegation.  It MUST equal the top-level sub of the token
         issued at this hop, or an upstream subject identifier recorded
         in the chain.

      iss:  REQUIRED.  Identifier of the authorization server or other
         authority that captured the re-authorization.

      method:  REQUIRED.  A value from the re-authorization methods
         registry established in Section 17.4, or a collision-resistant
         URI.  Initial registered values:

         *  interactive_consent: the principal re-authorized through an
            interactive prompt;

         *  step_up: re-authorization through step-up authentication;

         *  refresh_grant: re-issuance under a refresh grant carrying
            broader authority than the prior access token;

         *  policy_grant: programmatic re-authorization under a
            deployment policy artifact;

         *  domain_transition: the hop crosses a trust-domain boundary
            at which authority vocabularies change (Section 10.3).

      iat:  REQUIRED.  Time of the re-authorization event.

      artifact:  OPTIONAL.  A URI or token identifier referencing an
         external artifact evidencing the re-authorization (for example,
         a consent record or step-up assertion).  Recipients MAY resolve
         and validate the artifact under local policy; Section 15.3
         explains why deployments needing strong re-authorization
         integrity SHOULD require it.

   When reauthorized is present on a receipt, that hop is a new
   monotonicity basis: the hop's bounds are not compared against older
   bounds, and newer artifacts are compared against the post-re-
   authorization bounds (Section 11).  A receipt carrying reauthorized
   MUST also carry bounds recording the post-event value for every
   governed dimension the event expanded, and SHOULD carry bounds for
   every governed dimension in effect at the hop.

8.  Bounds Events

   The reauthorized receipt claim covers expansion that coincides with a
   new actor hop.  Expansion between hops creates no receipt, so it
   needs its own carrier: bounds_events, an instantiation of the non-hop
   event artifact pattern of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS].

8.1.  The bounds_events and bounds_events_complete Claims

   bounds_events:  OPTIONAL.  A top-level JWT claim on the outer token.
      An array of strings, each the compact serialization [RFC7515] of a
      signed bounds-event JWT as defined below.  When present, the
      array:

      *  MUST NOT be empty;

      *  MUST be ordered from newest event to oldest event;

      *  MUST be preserved byte-for-byte by every party that carries,
         stores, or forwards it, following the same preservation rule as
         actor_receipts.

   bounds_events_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean JWT claim on the outer
      token.  When true, the issuer attests that bounds_events contains
      every non-hop bounds-changing event that occurred during the
      delegation lifetime as of issuance.  When false or absent,
      coverage may be partial and recipients MUST NOT infer from the
      absence of events that no re-authorization occurred.  This is the
      <name>_complete member of the receipts companion's claim-pair
      convention.

8.2.  Bounds-Event JWT Format

   The JOSE header of a bounds event:

   *  MUST include an asymmetric digital-signature alg value, and MUST
      NOT use alg: none or a MAC-based symmetric algorithm;

   *  MUST include typ with the value bounds-event+jwt;

   *  SHOULD include kid when the event issuer publishes multiple
      verification keys;

   *  MAY include crit per [RFC7515]; consumers MUST reject an event
      whose crit header lists an extension header the consumer does not
      understand.

   The JWT payload of a bounds event:

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The authority that captured the re-authorization and
      signed the event.  Recipients evaluate event issuers under the
      trust rules of Section 15.3.

   event_type:  REQUIRED.  The value bounds_reauth for events defined by
      this document.  Companion profiles defining other event types use
      their own event arrays per the receipts companion's non-hop
      pattern, not this array.

   receipt_jti:  REQUIRED.  The jti of the receipt to which this event
      is anchored: the newest receipt in the chain at the time of the
      event.  The event supersedes that receipt's recorded bounds for
      everything newer than that receipt.  This claim is reused from
      [ACTOR-PROOFS] with its registered semantics generalized to event
      anchoring (Section 17.2).

   new_bounds:  REQUIRED.  A JSON object with the same shape and member
      rules as the bounds receipt claim (Section 7.1), recording the
      authority in effect after the event.  At least one governed
      dimension MUST be present.

   reauthorized:  REQUIRED.  A JSON object with the same structure and
      requirements as the reauthorized receipt claim (Section 7.2),
      recording who authorized the change, how, and when.

   prh / prh_alg:  The chain-linkage claims of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS], applied
      to bounds events.  When the array contains more than one event,
      each event other than the oldest MUST include prh hashing the
      exact compact serialization of the next older event, and the
      oldest MUST omit prh; all events in the array MUST use the same
      prh_alg value or all omit it, with the SHA-256 default and agility
      rules of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] applying unchanged.  Event order is
      therefore cryptographic; recipients MUST NOT rely on iat values to
      order events.  The event chain is linked independently of the
      receipt chain and of any proof chain in the same token.

   iat, exp, jti:  REQUIRED, as defined in [RFC7519].  exp MUST cover
      the expected maximum lifetime of any token that will carry this
      event, following the sizing rules of receipt exp in
      [ACTOR-RECEIPTS].

   An event MAY contain additional claims; consumers MUST ignore
   unrecognized claims unless a specification or local agreement defines
   their meaning.

8.3.  Event Lifecycle

   The authority that performs a non-hop re-authorization creates the
   event and prepends it to the array at the next issuance that carries
   the array (for example, the refresh-grant issuance whose authority
   the event justifies).  Parties other than the event's creator MUST
   NOT add, remove, reorder, or reserialize events; an issuer that
   cannot preserve an inherited bounds_events array byte-for-byte MUST
   drop the array entirely, together with bounds_events_complete, rather
   than carry a modified array.  Event disclosure is all-or-nothing for
   a given token: removing any event breaks the event prh chain or
   silently conceals a basis change.

9.  Issuer Self-Attestation

   authority_bounds_enforced:  OPTIONAL.  A top-level JWT claim on the
      outer token: a non-empty array of governed-dimension names.  For
      each named dimension, the issuer attests that, at issuance, the
      issued token's effective value was no broader than the
      corresponding effective inbound value, and that any expansion was
      covered by a re-authorization event recorded per this profile.

   This claim is an unverifiable self-attestation by the same issuer
   that signed the outer token; it adds no independent evidence, and a
   compromised issuer can assert it freely (Section 15.2).  Its defined
   uses are:

   *  *Consistency tripwire.* When the token also carries receipt-
      attested bounds for a named dimension, the chain verification of
      Section 11 MUST succeed for that dimension; an
      authority_bounds_enforced entry whose dimension fails chain
      verification MUST cause the recipient to reject the token's
      bounds-based evidence.

   *  *Deployment coordination.* In deployments without receipt-attested
      bounds, the claim records which dimensions the issuer applied
      monotonicity to, for recipients whose local policy chooses to rely
      on issuer trust alone.

   Absence of the claim, or of a dimension from it, does not assert that
   authority expanded; it means the issuer made no attestation for that
   dimension.

10.  Issuer Processing

   This section defines how an authorization server or Transaction Token
   Service records, checks, and re-bases authority bounds.  It extends
   the issuer processing of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS]; all receipt creation,
   extension, preservation, and reissuance rules of that document apply
   unchanged.

10.1.  Recording Bounds at a New Hop

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and creates the receipt
   for it, and the deployment uses this profile, the issuer:

   1.  MUST determine the issued token's effective scope, aud, resource,
       and authorization_details under the underlying grant rules.

   2.  MUST include in the new receipt's bounds each dimension it
       attests, with each member equal to the effective issued value per
       Section 7.1.  An issuer that declares a dimension in
       authority_bounds_enforced MUST record that dimension's bound in
       the receipt when receipts are in use.

   3.  For each monotonic dimension it enforces, MUST verify that the
       issued value is within the effective inbound value, and, when
       validated inbound receipts carry bounds for the dimension, within
       the effective upper bound derived from the newest applicable
       inbound receipt and any anchored events (Section 11).

   4.  When step 3 fails and the deployment holds an authoritative re-
       authorization for the expansion, MAY proceed by recording
       reauthorized on the new receipt per Section 7.2; otherwise MUST
       reject the request under Section 13.

   5.  MAY set authority_bounds_enforced on the issued token, listing
       exactly the dimensions for which it performed step 3 or recorded
       a covering re-authorization.

10.2.  Reissuance and Refresh Without a New Hop

   Reissuance without a new actor hop creates no receipt, so recorded
   bounds cannot change through the receipt chain.  An issuer that
   reissues or refreshes while carrying a bounds-bearing receipt chain
   forward:

   *  MUST NOT issue an outer token whose value for any monotonic
      dimension exceeds the effective upper bound derived from
      receipt[0] and any events anchored to it; narrowing further is
      always permitted;

   *  when a broader value is authorized (for example, a refresh grant
      following step-up or an approver widening a governing authority
      object), MUST record the expansion as a bounds_reauth event in
      bounds_events, anchored to the inherited receipt[0] by its jti,
      signed by the authority that captured the re-authorization, and
      prepended per Section 8; the issued token's values are then
      measured against the event's new_bounds;

   *  when it can neither stay within the effective upper bound nor
      record a covering event, MUST NOT carry the bounds-bearing receipt
      chain forward while claiming enforcement: it MUST fail the
      request, or issue without authority_bounds_enforced for the
      expanded dimension where local policy and resource requirements
      permit.

   An AS that supports refresh tokens for bounds-bearing delegated
   tokens MUST retain, in the same issuer-controlled state that the
   receipts companion requires for actor_receipts, the inherited
   bounds_events array and enough state to compute the effective upper
   bound at refresh time.

10.3.  Domain Transitions

   At a trust-domain boundary, the extending issuer typically expresses
   authority in its own vocabulary: scope strings from a different
   registry, audiences and resources in a different namespace.
   Syntactic comparison across such a hop is meaningless, and pretending
   otherwise would either reject every legitimate cross-domain exchange
   or, worse, pass vacuous checks.

   An issuer that adds a hop whose authority vocabulary differs from the
   inbound token's:

   *  MUST record reauthorized on the new receipt with method:
      domain_transition, establishing a new monotonicity basis at the
      boundary;

   *  MUST record the new domain's authority values in the new receipt's
      bounds;

   *  SHOULD reference, via reauthorized.artifact, the policy or
      agreement under which the cross-domain translation is authorized.

   Recipients treat pre-boundary bounds as historical context from the
   prior domain: monotonicity holds piecewise within each domain
   segment, not end-to-end across the boundary.  A recipient whose
   policy requires end-to-end monotonicity in a single vocabulary MUST
   reject chains containing domain_transition bases, or accept them only
   under explicit trusted cross-domain mapping rules.  This is a
   deliberate limit of the profile, not a deployment defect: cross-
   domain authority equivalence is a trust decision, and this document
   declines to encode it syntactically.

10.4.  Partial and Sparse Coverage

   Bounds coverage composes with the receipts companion's partial
   coverage: a receipt chain covering an outermost prefix of the visible
   chain can carry bounds on any subset of its receipts.  Sparse
   coverage is verified sparsely (Section 11) and enforced densely only
   where required (Section 12).  The rollout guidance of
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] applies with the same force here: coverage grows
   from the newest hop inward, so deployments that need origin-hop
   authority evidence deploy bounds recording at the origin issuer
   first.

11.  Consumer Processing

   An issuer, resource server, or other recipient that relies on this
   profile MUST perform the following steps.  Steps 1 and 2 establish
   the inputs; steps 3 through 9 verify.

   1.  Validate the outer token and its actor_receipts chain per
       [ACTOR-RECEIPTS].  Bounds claims in receipts that fail receipts-
       companion validation MUST NOT be used.

   2.  Verify claim types: each receipt bounds and each new_bounds is a
       JSON object whose recognized members have the types defined in
       Section 6; each reauthorized object carries its REQUIRED members
       with the defined types; authority_bounds_enforced, if present, is
       a non-empty array of strings; bounds_events, if present, is a
       non-empty array of strings; bounds_events_complete, if present,
       is a boolean.  If bounds_events_complete is present with the
       value true while bounds_events is absent, the combination is
       malformed and MUST be treated as a failed required check.

   3.  Validate bounds_events, when present.  For each event, in array
       order: parse the compact JWT; verify the event issuer is
       acceptable under the recipient's re-authorization trust policy
       (Section 15.3) before any network retrieval keyed by event
       content; resolve the key and validate the signature; verify typ
       equals bounds-event+jwt; reject unknown crit headers; verify the
       REQUIRED claims iss, event_type, receipt_jti, new_bounds,
       reauthorized, iat, exp, and jti are present with expected types;
       enforce exp and iat; verify event_type equals bounds_reauth;
       verify receipt_jti names a receipt present in the validated
       chain, rejecting events with unresolvable anchors.  Verify event-
       chain linkage per Section 8: every event other than the oldest
       carries prh hashing the next older event, one prh_alg for the
       whole array, oldest omits prh.

   4.  Compute effective upper bounds.  For each governed dimension D
       and each receipt receipt[k] that carries bounds[D]: the effective
       upper bound presented by receipt[k] is receipt[k].bounds[D],
       superseded by the newest event anchored to receipt[k] (by event-
       chain order) whose new_bounds carries D, when any such event
       exists.

   5.  Verify monotonicity for each monotonic dimension D, and for aud
       when the recipient governs audience (Section 6.2): walking
       adjacent receipt pairs (receipt[i], receipt[i+1]) where both
       carry bounds[D], verify that receipt[i].bounds[D] is within the
       effective upper bound presented by receipt[i+1], per the
       comparison rules of Section 6; skip pairs in which receipt[i]
       carries reauthorized, which establishes a new basis at hop i.  A
       failed comparison MUST cause rejection of the token's bounds-
       based evidence.

   6.  Verify the outer token, when receipt[0] carries bounds[D] and the
       outer token's effective value for D is determinable from its
       claims, the introspection response, or trusted local context: the
       outer value MUST be within the effective upper bound presented by
       receipt[0].  Narrowing at reissuance is permitted; expansion is
       rejected.  When the effective value for resource cannot be
       determined, outer-token verification for that dimension is not
       performed.

   7.  Verify authority_bounds_enforced consistency, when present: each
       named dimension MUST be a dimension name the recipient
       recognizes, and for each named dimension for which the chain
       carries any receipt-attested bounds, steps 4 through 6 MUST have
       succeeded.  Inconsistency MUST cause rejection of the token's
       bounds-based evidence.

   8.  Apply required-dimension enforcement, when Protected Resource
       Metadata declares authority_bounds_required or local policy
       requires dimensions: for each required dimension D, verify
       authority_bounds_enforced names D, every receipt in the chain
       carries bounds[D] (dense coverage), and steps 4 through 6
       succeeded for D.  A token with sparse coverage does not satisfy a
       required dimension.  Recipients requiring full-chain enforcement
       SHOULD also require complete receipt coverage via the receipts
       companion's actor_receipts_complete_required, and complete event
       coverage via bounds_events_complete_required.

   9.  Apply any additional rules defined by companion profiles whose
       claims appear in the artifacts (see Section 14).  Companion rules
       MUST NOT relax any requirement in steps 1 through 8; they MAY add
       rejection conditions.

   If any required check fails, the recipient MUST reject the token's
   bounds-based evidence and MUST apply the underlying protocol's error
   handling for the stage at which the failure occurred.  Rejection of
   bounds-based evidence does not by itself invalidate the receipt chain
   under [ACTOR-RECEIPTS]; whether the token remains acceptable without
   bounds evidence is local policy, except where step 8 applies.

11.1.  Composition with Actor-Signed Hop Proofs

   When the token also carries actor_proofs validated under
   [ACTOR-PROOFS], recorded bounds and actor-consented target bindings
   are comparable at each hop covered by both artifacts.  For each index
   i covered by a bounds-bearing receipt and a proof:

   *  when receipt[i].bounds.aud is present, it MUST be within
      actor_proofs[i].target.aud;

   *  when both receipt[i].bounds.resource and
      actor_proofs[i].target.resource are present, the recorded set MUST
      be within the consented set;

   *  when both receipt[i].bounds.scope and actor_proofs[i].target.scope
      (defined below) are present, the recorded scope set MUST be within
      the consented scope set.

   A failed comparison means the issuer recorded authority broader than
   the actor consented to at that hop; recipients validating both
   companions MUST treat it as a failed required check for both
   artifacts' evidence.

   This document defines one extension member for the proof target
   object, under the constraining-extension rule of [ACTOR-PROOFS]:

   target.scope:  OPTIONAL.  A string of space-separated scope tokens
      the actor authorizes for the token issued at its hop, compared
      under the rules of Section 6.1.  As a constraining member, its
      presence narrows the actor's target binding; consumers that do not
      recognize it ignore it per [ACTOR-PROOFS].

11.2.  Use by Resource Servers

   A verified bounds chain proves that trusted issuers recorded non-
   expanding authority across the covered hops, with expansions signed
   and anchored.  It does not prove the recorded authority was
   appropriate, that the delegation remains active, or that the current
   request is authorized; a resource server MUST evaluate the current
   outer token under current policy regardless of bounds verification.
   Bounds evidence is input to authorization, audit, and anomaly
   detection, not a substitute for them.

11.3.  Introspection

   Receipt-attested bounds travel inside receipts and are returned
   wherever receipts are returned; the introspection rules of
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] apply unchanged, including all-or-nothing receipt
   disclosure and the requirement list for outer-token members.

   When an authorization server returns this profile's outer-token
   artifacts in an OAuth Token Introspection response [RFC7662], it MAY
   return authority_bounds_enforced, bounds_events, and
   bounds_events_complete with the same syntax as the JWT claims.  An
   introspection response carrying bounds_events MUST return the
   complete stored array; a strict subset breaks the event prh chain or
   conceals a basis change, so event disclosure through introspection is
   all-or-nothing.  A response that cannot disclose the full array MUST
   omit bounds_events and bounds_events_complete entirely.

   When the introspected token is revoked or otherwise inactive, the
   introspection response follows the core actor profile's suppression
   rule for delegation claims: an introspection server MUST NOT return
   authority_bounds_enforced, bounds_events, or bounds_events_complete
   for a token it reports as inactive.

12.  Discovery and Capability Signaling

   This section defines metadata for advertising authority-bounds
   support.  It follows the discovery conventions of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS],
   with dimension-valued parameters where a boolean would hide which
   dimensions are covered.

12.1.  Authorization Server Metadata

   The following parameters are defined for use in Authorization Server
   Metadata [RFC8414]:

   authority_bounds_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A non-empty array of
      governed-dimension names.  The authorization server advertises
      that, for each named dimension, it can record receipt-attested
      bounds and enforce issuance-time monotonicity per Section 10.1.
      Absence, or absence of a dimension from the array, means no such
      advertisement; clients and relying parties MUST NOT infer support
      from omission.

   bounds_events_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      authorization server can create, preserve, and return
      bounds_events per this document.

   Both parameters apply equally to a Transaction Token Service
   publishing metadata through the same framework.

12.2.  Protected Resource Metadata

   The following parameters are defined for use in Protected Resource
   Metadata [RFC9728]:

   authority_bounds_required:  OPTIONAL.  A non-empty array of governed-
      dimension names.  For each named dimension, the resource server
      requires the dense receipt-attested enforcement of step 8 of
      Section 11: authority_bounds_enforced naming the dimension, bounds
      for the dimension on every receipt, and successful verification.
      Like the receipts companion's required parameters, this is a
      policy declaration for deployment coordination; it is satisfied by
      configuring the authorization servers that serve the resource, and
      clients MAY use it together with authority_bounds_supported for
      authorization-server selection.  A resource server declaring aud
      here declares audience governance for its tokens (Section 6.2).

   bounds_events_complete_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true,
      the resource server requires bounds_events_complete: true on the
      outer token or introspection response whenever bounds evidence is
      presented, so that the absence of events is itself attested.  This
      document deliberately defines no bounds_events_required parameter:
      a recipient cannot observe whether unrecorded events occurred, so
      the only testable requirement is the completeness attestation.

   A resource server SHOULD pair authority_bounds_required with the
   receipts companion's actor_receipts_complete_required when it needs
   full-chain rather than covered-prefix enforcement.

12.3.  Introspection Response Members

   The following members are defined for use in OAuth Token
   Introspection responses [RFC7662], each with the same syntax as the
   JWT claim of the same name: authority_bounds_enforced, bounds_events,
   and bounds_events_complete.  Consumer use is described in
   Section 11.3.

13.  Error Handling

   Bounds validation extends the underlying OAuth or Transaction Token
   validation.  Failures are reported through the error mechanism
   applicable to the stage at which they occur.

   When an authorization server or Transaction Token Service rejects a
   token request because inbound bounds evidence fails validation under
   Section 11 (signature failure on an event, broken event chain,
   unresolvable anchor, monotonicity failure in the inbound chain), it
   SHOULD return invalid_grant, constructed per [RFC8693] Section 2.2.2
   and [RFC6749] Section 5.2, consistent with the core actor profile's
   error mapping for actor information that fails validation.

   When the request itself asks for authority exceeding the effective
   upper bound and no re-authorization covers it, the issuer SHOULD
   return the error code matching the exceeded dimension: invalid_scope
   ([RFC6749] Section 5.2) for scope, invalid_target ([RFC8693]
   Section 2.2.2) for aud or resource, and invalid_authorization_details
   ([RFC9396]) for authorization_details.

   When the failure reflects an authorization-policy decision about the
   actor or delegation rather than a structural failure, an issuer MAY
   use actor_unauthorized as defined in the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile].

   When a resource server rejects a request because bounds verification
   fails or required dimensions are unsatisfied, it SHOULD return
   invalid_token per [RFC6750] Section 3.1, and SHOULD include an
   error_description identifying bounds-verification failure so
   operators can distinguish it from generic token validation.

   An introspection server does not return an OAuth error for missing
   bounds artifacts; their presence is a property of the response.  This
   document defines no new OAuth error codes.

14.  Extensibility

   This profile composes with the extensibility framework of
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] and adds its own surfaces:

   *  *New governed dimensions*, registered in the dimension registry
      (Section 17.3) with a defined comparison rule and a declared
      governance class (monotonic by default, or record-only).
      Consumers ignore unregistered bounds members they do not
      recognize.

   *  *New re-authorization methods*, registered in the methods registry
      (Section 17.4) or expressed as collision-resistant URIs.

   *  *Per-type RAR refinement rules*, defined by the specifications
      that define RAR types; such rules extend Section 6.4 for their
      types without modifying this document.

   *  *New event types* are NOT added to bounds_events; companion
      profiles defining other non-hop events use their own parallel
      arrays per the receipts companion's pattern, so that each array
      has one verification routine and one completeness attestation.

   Companion rules MUST NOT relax any rejection condition in Section 11;
   they MAY add rejection conditions.  Companion claims and metadata
   MUST be registered in the registries used by this document.

15.  Security Considerations

   Authority bounds strengthen authority provenance for receipt-covered
   hops, but they do not replace token validation or authorization.  The
   general OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice [RFC9700] and the
   JWT best practices in [RFC8725] apply.

15.1.  Threat Model

15.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile

   *  *Compromised intermediate issuer silently expanding authority.*
      Primary value proposition, with an explicit density condition:
      mitigation holds for a dimension only across adjacencies where
      both receipts record the dimension.  Under dense coverage, an
      intermediate that widens scope, resource, or authorization_details
      either records the wider value (detected by the adjacency
      comparison), under-records it (detected by the next enforcing
      issuer's issuance-time check in Section 10.1, or by the outer-
      token comparison when the hop is terminal), or omits the dimension
      (detected by dense-coverage enforcement under step 8).  Under
      sparse coverage, a compromised hop adjacent to non-recording hops
      is NOT detected by chain verification; the threat-model row is
      conditional, not absolute.

   *  *Silent basis change.* Expansion requires a signed artifact: a
      reauthorized claim inside a trusted issuer's receipt or a signed,
      anchored, chained event.  Dropping an event breaks the event prh
      chain; reordering is prevented by the chain;
      bounds_events_complete: true attests that no events are withheld.

   *  *Issuance beyond actor consent, when proofs are present.* The
      cross-checks of Section 11.1 detect recorded authority broader
      than the actor-signed target binding at the same hop.

15.1.2.  Adversaries NOT Mitigated

   *  *Origin issuer choosing broad initial bounds.* Monotonicity is
      relative; no upstream value constrains the origin.  Constraint on
      origin authority requires policy at the origin issuer, pre-
      authorization artifacts, or transparency mechanisms outside this
      document.

   *  *Fabricated re-authorization by a trusted issuer.* Any issuer
      trusted to record re-authorization can convert detected expansion
      into authorized expansion (Section 15.3).

   *  *Full-chain collusion.* Colluding issuers fabricate a monotonic
      chain at any level; this matches the receipts companion's trust
      boundary.

   *  *Semantic expansion within syntactic subsets.* See Section 15.4.

   *  *Cross-domain expansion.* A domain_transition basis reset is
      exactly an unverified re-expression of authority; recipients
      requiring end-to-end guarantees must reject or map it
      (Section 10.3).

   *  *Compromised current outer-token issuer.* Out of scope here as in
      the receipts companion; a compromised outer issuer can omit this
      profile's claims entirely.  Absence of bounds evidence is a
      downgrade recipients detect only by requiring the evidence
      (Section 12).

15.1.3.  Trust Model Summary

   Bounds inherit the receipts companion's per-issuer, non-transitive
   trust model, and add one axis: trust to record re-authorization.  A
   recipient MAY trust an issuer's receipts while refusing its
   reauthorized claims and events; Section 15.3 defines the posture.
   Composition with proofs adds an actor-side check with an independent
   trust anchor.

15.2.  Issuer Self-Attestation Limits

   authority_bounds_enforced without receipt-attested bounds is a claim
   by the party being trusted about its own behavior.  It is not
   evidence, and recipients MUST NOT treat it as satisfying any
   requirement for receipt-attested verification.  Its value is the
   consistency tripwire of Section 9 and coordination signaling.  A
   deployment that needs offline evidence that authority did not expand
   MUST use receipt-attested bounds; a deployment that accepts issuer-
   only attestation is trusting the current issuer exactly as it would
   without this profile, plus a recorded statement useful in audit and
   dispute.

15.3.  Re-Authorization Abuse

   Re-authorization is the designed escape from monotonicity, so it is
   the natural attack surface.  A compromised or over-trusted issuer can
   record reauthorized claims or sign bounds_reauth events justifying
   arbitrary expansion.

   *  Recipients MUST evaluate re-authorization trust separately from
      receipt trust: which issuers are trusted to capture re-
      authorization, for which subjects, and by which methods, is
      explicit local policy.  A recipient MAY accept an issuer's
      receipts while rejecting its re-authorization records; a rejected
      re-authorization is a failed basis reset, and the chain is then
      evaluated without it, which typically fails monotonicity and
      rejects the token's bounds evidence.

   *  Deployments needing strong re-authorization integrity SHOULD
      require reauthorized.artifact and SHOULD validate the referenced
      artifact against the authority that captured the event (for
      example, verifying a consent receipt's signature), rather than
      accepting the recording issuer's bare assertion.

   *  domain_transition bases deserve the most scrutiny: they legitimize
      non-comparability, and an attacker who can insert one launders any
      expansion.  Recipients SHOULD restrict which issuers may record
      domain transitions to the deployment's known boundary issuers.

15.4.  Scope Subsumption Gaps

   Set-membership comparison catches verbatim expansion only.  A scope
   token that is lexically new at a hop fails the subset check even when
   semantically narrower, and a lexically preserved token can be
   semantically broadened by configuration changes at the AS that
   defines it.  Deployments whose scope grammars carry hierarchy or
   wildcard semantics MUST either emit explicit narrowest-form scopes at
   every hop, or define and apply a deployment-specific comparison rule;
   this document does not define scope subsumption, and a general
   solution belongs in its own specification.

15.5.  Recorded Values and Token Reality

   bounds members are attested copies of issued-token values, signed by
   the issuer that produced both.  An issuer that records values
   differing from what it actually issued produces either a detectable
   mismatch (the outer-token comparison at the terminal hop, or the next
   enforcing issuer's inbound check) or a consistent lie spanning its
   receipt and its token, which is the compromised-issuer case above.
   Recipients comparing bounds against token values MUST use the
   effective values the token actually carries, not request-time values.

15.6.  Event Chain Size and Retention

   Each bounds event is a full signed JWT, typically 400 to 800 bytes;
   long-running delegations with frequent re-authorization accrete
   events linearly.  The receipts companion's size guidance applies to
   the combined artifact load; introspection delivery avoids header
   pressure.  Events also outlive tokens in audit stores, and carry
   consent and step-up activity; see Section 16.

16.  Privacy Considerations

   The privacy considerations of [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] apply, including
   cross-service correlation and retention beyond token lifetime.
   Bounds add authority-shaped disclosure:

   *  bounds exposes per-hop scope, audience, resource, and
      authorization-detail values to every recipient of the token or
      introspection response, revealing internal permission vocabulary,
      resource topology, and orchestration structure.  Issuers SHOULD
      record only the dimensions recipients need, and MAY enforce
      monotonicity at issuance without recording bounds where disclosure
      outweighs evidence value.

   *  reauthorized and bounds_events reveal consent prompts, step-up
      authentication, and policy decisions, with timing; this is
      sensitive activity metadata.  bounds_events is visible at the
      outer-token level even when receipts are suppressed, so its
      presence is a distinct disclosure decision.  Deployments that need
      event history for audit but not for relying parties SHOULD return
      bounds_events via introspection only.

   *  A fully bounds-covered chain is a detailed narrative of authority
      narrowing across an organization; deployments SHOULD scope
      disclosure to audiences with adequate agreements, using the
      receipts companion's all-or-nothing granularity deliberately.

17.  IANA Considerations

17.1.  Media Type Registration

   This document requests registration of the following media type in
   the "Media Types" registry [RFC6838]:

   *  Type name: application

   *  Subtype name: bounds-event+jwt

   *  Required parameters: N/A

   *  Optional parameters: N/A

   *  Encoding considerations: 8bit; a bounds event is a JWS compact-
      serialized JWT [RFC7515] [RFC7519] consisting of base64url-encoded
      segments separated by period (.) characters.

   *  Security considerations: See Section 15 of this document and
      [RFC8725].

   *  Interoperability considerations: N/A

   *  Published specification: This document

   *  Applications that use this media type: Applications that issue,
      exchange, or validate OAuth Actor Chain Authority Bounds events.

   *  Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

   *  Additional information:

      -  Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

      -  Magic number(s): N/A

      -  File extension(s): N/A

      -  Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

   *  Person & email address to contact for further information: Karl
      McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Intended usage: COMMON

   *  Restrictions on usage: None

   *  Author: Karl McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Change controller: IETF

   The JOSE typ value bounds-event+jwt is the media type subtype name
   without the application/ prefix, following common JWT typing
   practice.

17.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

   This document requests registration of the following JWT Claims in
   the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry [RFC7519]:

   *  Claim Name: bounds

   *  Claim Description: Authority bounds in effect for the token issued
      at the hop attested by an Actor Receipt JWT

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: reauthorized

   *  Claim Description: Record of explicit re-authorization of
      delegated authority at a hop or event

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: bounds_events

   *  Claim Description: Array of signed bounds-event JWTs recording
      non-hop re-authorization of delegated authority

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: bounds_events_complete

   *  Claim Description: Boolean indicating whether bounds_events covers
      every non-hop bounds-changing event as of issuance

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: authority_bounds_enforced

   *  Claim Description: Array of authority-dimension names for which
      the issuer attests issuance-time monotonicity enforcement

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: event_type

   *  Claim Description: Type discriminator for a delegation-evidence
      event JWT

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: new_bounds

   *  Claim Description: Authority bounds in effect after the re-
      authorization recorded by a bounds-event JWT

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   This document reuses the prh and prh_alg claims registered by
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS] and the receipt_jti claim registered by
   [ACTOR-PROOFS], applied to bounds-event JWTs as profiled in this
   document.  This document requests that IANA add this document to the
   Specification Document(s) entries for those three registrations.  The
   Claim Description wording requested by [ACTOR-PROOFS] for prh and
   prh_alg already covers the delegation-evidence artifact family; for
   receipt_jti, this document requests that the Claim Description be
   updated to:

   *  receipt_jti: jti of the Actor Receipt JWT that a sibling or
      anchored delegation-evidence JWT references for the same
      delegation hop

   This document does not request separate registration for the members
   of the bounds, new_bounds, reauthorized, and proof target objects it
   defines; sub-object keys within a registered claim are scoped to that
   claim's JSON object, following the convention of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile].

17.3.  OAuth Actor Authority Bounds Dimensions Registry

   This document requests that IANA establish a registry titled "OAuth
   Actor Authority Bounds Dimensions", with the registration policy
   Specification Required.  Each entry records: Dimension Name,
   Governance Class (monotonic or record-only), Comparison Rule
   reference, and Specification Document(s).  Initial contents:

   *  scope, monotonic, Section 6.1 of this document

   *  aud, record-only, Section 6.2 of this document

   *  resource, monotonic, Section 6.3 of this document

   *  authorization_details, monotonic, Section 6.4 of this document

   Designated experts SHOULD verify that a requested dimension has a
   deterministic comparison rule, a declared governance class, and
   semantics that do not overlap an existing entry.

17.4.  OAuth Actor Re-Authorization Methods Registry

   This document requests that IANA establish a registry titled "OAuth
   Actor Re-Authorization Methods", with the registration policy
   Specification Required.  Each entry records: Method Name,
   Description, and Specification Document(s).  Initial contents:
   interactive_consent, step_up, refresh_grant, policy_grant, and
   domain_transition, as defined in Section 7.2.  Values not in the
   registry MUST be collision-resistant URIs.

17.5.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata names
   in the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry [RFC8414]:

   *  Metadata Name: authority_bounds_supported

   *  Metadata Description: Array of authority-dimension names for which
      the server records receipt-attested bounds and enforces issuance-
      time monotonicity

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Metadata Name: bounds_events_supported

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates support for creating, preserving,
      and returning bounds-event arrays

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

17.6.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata names
   in the "OAuth Protected Resource Metadata" registry [RFC9728]:

   *  Metadata Name: authority_bounds_required

   *  Metadata Description: Array of authority-dimension names for which
      the resource requires dense receipt-attested bounds enforcement

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Metadata Name: bounds_events_complete_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource requires an
      issuer attestation of complete bounds-event coverage

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

17.7.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration

   This document requests registration of the following names in the
   "OAuth Token Introspection Response" registry [RFC7662]:

   *  Name: authority_bounds_enforced

   *  Description: Array of authority-dimension names for which the
      issuer attests issuance-time monotonicity enforcement

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Name: bounds_events

   *  Description: Array of signed bounds-event JWTs returned by
      introspection

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Name: bounds_events_complete

   *  Description: Indicates whether the returned bounds events provide
      complete coverage of non-hop re-authorization

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

18.  Acknowledgments

   This document builds on the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile], the OAuth Actor Receipts
   companion [ACTOR-RECEIPTS], the OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs
   companion [ACTOR-PROOFS], OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange [RFC8693],
   Resource Indicators [RFC8707], and Rich Authorization Requests
   [RFC9396].  The authority-monotonicity property is motivated in part
   by the PIC Model [PIC-MODEL], which enforces non-expansion
   structurally at the execution-model layer with online validation;
   this document ports the property to OAuth wire formats as attested,
   offline-verifiable evidence, trading structural impossibility for
   deployability, with the re-authorization carve-out as the price of
   realism.

   Individual contributors and reviewers will be acknowledged in
   subsequent revisions of this document as feedback accumulates.

19.  References

19.1.  Normative References

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6750]  Jones, M. and D. Hardt, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization
              Framework: Bearer Token Usage", RFC 6750,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6750, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6750>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>.

   [RFC6920]  Farrell, S., Kutscher, D., Dannewitz, C., Ohlman, B.,
              Keranen, A., and P. Hallam-Baker, "Naming Things with
              Hashes", RFC 6920, DOI 10.17487/RFC6920, April 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6920>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8707>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9396>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9728>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              profile-00, 30 April 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-profile-00>.

   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Receipts for Delegation
              Provenance", July 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-receipts.html>.

   [ACTOR-PROOFS]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs", July
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-profile/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              proofs.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

19.2.  Informative References

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9700>.

   [PIC-MODEL]
              PIC Protocol Project, "PIC Model Specification (Provenance
              Identity Continuity)", 2026,
              <https://github.com/pic-protocol/pic-spec>.

Appendix A.  Examples

   The examples in this appendix show decoded contents; real receipts
   and events are compact-signed JWT strings.  Timestamps are
   illustrative.  The scenario continues the two-hop travel example of
   [ACTOR-RECEIPTS]: alice delegates to an AI travel-assistant agent
   through the enterprise AS, and the agent's token is exchanged at the
   travel-provider AS, which adds a booking tool as the outermost actor.
   Because these receipts carry bounds, they are different byte strings
   from the receipts shown in that document's examples and carry their
   own identifiers.

A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Chain with Narrowing Bounds

   The outer token:

   {
     "jti": "3c9f5a1e-7d2b-4e8c-a6f0-1b4d7e0a3c6f",
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "aud": "https://api.travel-provider.example",
     "scope": "trips:book",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-0>",
       "<receipt-1>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": true,
     "authority_bounds_enforced": ["scope", "resource"]
   }

   actor_receipts[1], signed by the enterprise AS at the first hop,
   records the authority granted to the agent:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
       "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
       "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
     },
     "bounds": {
       "scope": "trips:read trips:book profile:read",
       "aud": ["https://as.travel-provider.example"],
       "resource": [
         "https://api.travel-provider.example/bookings",
         "https://api.travel-provider.example/trips"
       ]
     },
     "iat": 1776741600,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "6e2a8c4f-9b1d-4f7a-8e3c-5a0b2d9f7e1a"
   }

   actor_receipts[0], signed by the travel-provider AS when it added the
   booking tool, records narrower authority:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "bounds": {
       "scope": "trips:book",
       "aud": ["https://api.travel-provider.example"],
       "resource": ["https://api.travel-provider.example/bookings"]
     },
     "prh": "Vt7RcW2yQm9ZpKd4Xa6bEu8sHf1jLn3iTg5oAw0eCkY",
     "iat": 1776745200,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "8d4b2f6a-1c3e-4a5d-9f7b-0e2c4a6d8f0b",
     "origin_jti": "3c9f5a1e-7d2b-4e8c-a6f0-1b4d7e0a3c6f"
   }

   Verification per Section 11: scope narrows from trips:read trips:book
   profile:read to trips:book, and resource narrows from the two
   enumerated endpoints to the bookings endpoint (exact-URI set
   membership; a root URI would NOT cover its sub-paths under
   Section 6.3), so the monotonic dimensions pass; the outer token's
   scope equals receipt[0].bounds.scope, so the outer check passes.  The
   recorded aud values are NOT subsets across the hop (api.travel-
   provider.example is not in the older audience set): under the default
   record-only governance of Section 6.2 this is expected retargeting
   and is recorded, not rejected.  The authority_bounds_enforced array
   names scope and resource only, consistent with what the chain
   verifies.

A.2.  Example: Refresh Widening Recorded as a Bounds Event

   Suppose the travel-provider AS later refreshes the token above with
   broader scope after alice completes step-up authentication: the
   refreshed token carries scope: "trips:book trips:cancel".  No new
   actor hop exists, so the expansion is recorded as a bounds event
   anchored to receipt[0]:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "event_type": "bounds_reauth",
     "receipt_jti": "8d4b2f6a-1c3e-4a5d-9f7b-0e2c4a6d8f0b",
     "new_bounds": {
       "scope": "trips:book trips:cancel"
     },
     "reauthorized": {
       "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "method": "step_up",
       "iat": 1776747800,
       "artifact": "https://as.travel-provider.example/events/su-91f4"
     },
     "iat": 1776747810,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "2f8c6e4a-0b1d-4c3e-8a5f-7d9b1e3c5a7f"
   }

   The refreshed outer token carries the inherited receipts unchanged,
   scope: "trips:book trips:cancel", and:

   {
     "bounds_events": [
       "<event-0>"
     ],
     "bounds_events_complete": true
   }

   Verification: the event validates against the AS's key, its
   receipt_jti resolves to receipt[0], and it is the sole event, so it
   omits prh.  The effective upper bound presented by receipt[0] for
   scope becomes trips:book trips:cancel, and the refreshed outer
   token's scope is within it.  Without the event, the refreshed token
   would fail step 6 of Section 11, since trips:cancel is not in
   receipt[0].bounds.scope.  A recipient whose re-authorization trust
   policy does not accept step_up events from this AS rejects the basis
   change, and with it the refreshed token's bounds evidence.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
