



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Experimental                                 9 May 2026
Expires: 10 November 2026


             OAuth Actor Receipts for Delegation Provenance
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts-latest

Abstract

   This document defines OAuth Actor Receipts, an optional companion
   provenance profile for delegated OAuth tokens that conform to the
   OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation.  It introduces the actor_receipts
   claim, a signed per-hop receipt chain that records which issuer added
   each visible actor hop, preserves the historical top-level cnf value
   associated with that hop, and links receipts together so recipients
   can validate prior-hop provenance without relying solely on the
   current outer token issuer.  This document also defines metadata and
   introspection parameters for advertising and consuming actor-receipt
   support.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile/
   draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts.html.  Status information for
   this document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (mailto:oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 10 November 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Relationship to the Core Actor Profile
     3.1.  Relationship to Token Introspection
   4.  Design Goals and Non-Goals
     4.1.  Deployment Fit
   5.  Actor Receipts Overview
   6.  The actor_receipts Claim
   7.  Actor Receipt JWT Format
     7.1.  JOSE Header
     7.2.  Receipt Claims
       7.2.1.  Identity Claims
       7.2.2.  Historical Presenter Binding
       7.2.3.  Chain Linkage
       7.2.4.  Time and Uniqueness
       7.2.5.  Outer-Token Binding
       7.2.6.  Excluded Standard Claims
       7.2.7.  Extension Claims
     7.3.  Receipt-Chain Linkage
   8.  Issuer Processing
     8.1.  Creating the First Receipt
     8.2.  Extending an Existing Receipt Chain
     8.3.  Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop
     8.4.  Partial Coverage and Full Coverage
     8.5.  Transaction Token Service Rebinding
   9.  Consumer Processing
     9.1.  Subject Re-Expression Across Hops
     9.2.  Complete Receipt Coverage
     9.3.  Use by Resource Servers
     9.4.  Introspection
   10. Discovery and Capability Signaling
     10.1.  Authorization Server Metadata
     10.2.  Protected Resource Metadata
     10.3.  Introspection Response Members
     10.4.  Out-of-Scope Discovery Signals
     10.5.  Claim-Pair Convention for Sibling Profiles
   11. Error Handling
     11.1.  Authorization Server and Transaction Token Service Errors
     11.2.  Resource Server Errors
     11.3.  Introspection Server Behavior
     11.4.  No New Error Codes
   12. Extensibility
   13. Security Considerations
     13.1.  Threat Model
       13.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile
       13.1.2.  Adversaries NOT Mitigated
       13.1.3.  Trust Model Summary
     13.2.  Current Presenter Validation
     13.3.  Trust in Receipt Issuers
     13.4.  Receipt-to-Token Binding Limits
     13.5.  Hash Algorithm Agility
     13.6.  Compromised Outer Issuer
     13.7.  Receipt Freshness and Replay
     13.8.  Receipt Signing Key Compromise
     13.9.  Receipt Chain Size
     13.10. Historical cnf Disclosure
   14. Privacy Considerations
     14.1.  What Receipts Disclose
     14.2.  Minimization
     14.3.  Selective Disclosure
     14.4.  Audience Restriction
     14.5.  Unnecessary Hop Disclosure
     14.6.  Cross-Service Correlation
     14.7.  Detached Verification Privacy
   15. IANA Considerations
     15.1.  Media Type Registration
     15.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration
     15.3.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration
     15.4.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration
     15.5.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration
   16. Acknowledgments
   17. References
     17.1.  Normative References
     17.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Examples
     A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Delegation Chain
     A.2.  Example: Transaction Token Service Rebinding
     A.3.  Example: Partial Receipt Coverage
     A.4.  Example: Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] makes actor identity visible in
   delegated tokens through a common act claim.  A relying party can
   read that chain but cannot, on the basis of the outer token alone,
   verify prior hops independently of the current token issuer.

   This document defines OAuth Actor Receipts, an optional companion
   profile that adds independently signed per-hop provenance.  Each
   issuer that adds an actor hop signs a receipt for that hop; receipts
   travel with the token, are linked into a hash chain, and are
   validated against each issuer's published keys.  The design center
   is:

   *  keep the visible actor chain in act;

   *  keep active presenter proof of possession in the token's top-level
      cnf;

   *  carry prior-hop provenance, including historical top-level cnf
      values, in separately signed hop receipts.

   Receipts add a top-level JWT claim and a small set of metadata
   signals on top of the existing OAuth ([RFC6749], [RFC8693]) and core-
   actor-profile trust model; deployments opt in per resource server or
   per trust domain.  Scope is detailed in Design Goals and Non-Goals
   (Section 4).

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   Unless otherwise specified, OAuth terms such as client, authorization
   server, resource server, access token, refresh token, grant,
   subject_token, and actor_token are used as defined in [RFC6749] and
   [RFC8693].  Transaction Token and Transaction Token Service (TTS) are
   used as defined in [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens].

   The following terms are used in this document:

   Actor Receipt:  A signed JWT that attests one visible actor hop in a
      delegated token chain.

   Outer Token:  The JWT access token or Transaction Token whose top-
      level actor_receipts claim carries the receipt chain.
      Distinguished from the receipt JWTs nested within it.

   Receipt Chain:  The ordered actor_receipts array carried in a token
      or introspection response.

   Historical Presenter Binding:  The top-level cnf value that was
      present in the token issued at the hop represented by a receipt.
      Historical presenter binding is informational provenance for that
      hop; it does not create an active proof-of-possession obligation
      for the current request.

   Complete Receipt Coverage:  A condition in which the number of
      receipts in actor_receipts equals the number of visible actor hops
      in the token's act chain, and every receipt aligns with the
      corresponding visible hop.

   Examples in this document are illustrative and omit unrelated claims,
   signatures, and validation steps that a complete deployment would
   need.

3.  Relationship to the Core Actor Profile

   This document is an extension of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile].  A token that uses the
   actor_receipts claim defined here:

   *  MUST conform to the actor-chain representation rules of the core
      actor profile;

   *  MUST use the top-level cnf claim, when present, only for the
      current token presenter;

   *  MUST NOT use nested act objects to carry independently trusted
      prior-hop key history.

   Actor receipts do not replace the visible act chain.  The act chain
   remains the interoperable representation of current delegated
   identity.  Receipts are an additional provenance layer that can be
   validated by issuers and recipients that support this profile.

   This document also does not redefine the request semantics of
   [RFC8693] or any Transaction Token request semantics.  It defines
   only:

   *  the actor_receipts claim;

   *  the signed JWT format of each receipt;

   *  issuer and consumer processing for those receipts;

   *  associated metadata and introspection parameters.

3.1.  Relationship to Token Introspection

   Receipt-based provenance and OAuth Token Introspection ([RFC7662])
   address overlapping but distinct needs:

   *  *Introspection* returns the current AS-controlled state of a token
      at the time of the introspection call.  It tells the resource
      server whether the token is currently active and reflects the AS's
      current view of the token's claims.

   *  *Receipts* preserve signed cross-hop provenance that travels with
      the token, survives across trust boundaries, may remain useful
      after intermediate systems become unreachable or are
      decommissioned, and supports detached verification by parties that
      do not have access to the issuing AS's introspection endpoint.

   A deployment may use either, both, or neither:

   *  Receipts MAY be returned via introspection, providing both signals
      in a single response (see Section 9.4).

   *  Receipts MAY be carried inline in JWT tokens for deployments where
      introspection is not available or where detached verification is
      required.

   *  Introspection MAY be used for active-status checks even when
      receipts are not in use.

   This document does not standardize the choice between receipts,
   introspection, and inline-only receipt-bearing tokens; that choice is
   a deployment decision driven by the recipient's trust framework, the
   network availability of introspection endpoints, and the audit and
   verification requirements of the deployment.

4.  Design Goals and Non-Goals

   The goals of this document are:

   *  preserve independently signed provenance for each visible actor
      hop;

   *  preserve historical top-level cnf values without putting them back
      into the core act claim;

   *  allow downstream recipients to validate prior-hop provenance
      against the issuers that created those hops;

   *  defer to OAuth ([RFC6749], [RFC8693]) and the core actor profile
      for current-token trust establishment, authorization, audience
      scoping, and sender-constraint validation;

   *  add provenance through additive top-level claims and metadata
      signals, with no required changes to client request flows;

   *  support progressive deployment, including tokens with partial
      receipt coverage.

   The non-goals of this document are:

   *  replacing the outer token's own signature or issuer trust model;

   *  redefining OAuth audience semantics, scope evaluation, or AS-to-RS
      trust establishment;

   *  redefining sender-constrained token validation for the current
      presenter;

   *  requiring clients to change request flows, or requiring resource
      servers that do not consume receipts to change resource-protection
      logic;

   *  proving that a particular historical scope, audience, or token
      lifetime was in force when a receipt was created;

   *  defining transparency logs, non-repudiation systems, or public
      audit infrastructure.

4.1.  Deployment Fit

   This profile's value scales with the number of distinct issuers in
   the trust set.  In federated or cross-domain deployments where
   multiple authorization servers and Transaction Token Services each
   contribute hops, receipts let recipients validate each hop against
   its own issuer rather than relying on the current outer token
   issuer's faithful preservation of the chain.  In single-domain
   deployments where the outer token issuer is the only trusted source
   for delegation state, the outer token's signature already conveys
   that attestation; receipts add overhead without meaningful additional
   provenance and SHOULD be weighed before adoption.

   Receipts mitigate a compromised or dishonest _downstream_ issuer
   fabricating prior-hop provenance (see Section 13.3 and Section 13.6).
   They do not mitigate a compromised current outer token issuer and do
   not provide actor non-repudiation; those properties require
   mechanisms outside this document.

5.  Actor Receipts Overview

   An actor receipt records one actor hop.  The issuer that adds a new
   outermost actor hop signs a receipt describing that hop and, when the
   issued token is sender-constrained, copies the token's top-level cnf
   value into the receipt as historical presenter-binding context.

   The token then carries an actor_receipts array:

   *  one array entry per covered actor hop;

   *  newest receipt first;

   *  older receipts preserved unchanged.

   This ordering aligns directly with the visible act chain in the outer
   token.  actor_receipts[0] corresponds to the outermost act object,
   actor_receipts[1] corresponds to act.act, and so on.

   Receipts can cover either:

   *  the full visible chain; or

   *  a contiguous outermost prefix of the visible chain.

   When a deployment requires full provenance, local policy or resource
   requirements enforce complete receipt coverage.

   Receipts are historical provenance, not authority transfer.  A valid
   receipt chain documents prior delegation state but does not by itself
   convey authority, authorization, entitlement, or delegation rights.
   Validation of a receipt does not imply that the represented
   delegation remains active, authorized, or acceptable under current
   policy; current authorization decisions MUST evaluate the current
   outer token, current policy, and current state, not the receipt chain
   alone.

6.  The actor_receipts Claim

   actor_receipts is a new top-level JWT claim for tokens that conform
   to the core actor profile and this companion provenance profile.

   actor_receipts:  OPTIONAL.  An array of strings.  Each string MUST be
      the compact serialization of a signed JWT receipt as defined in
      Section 7.  When present, the array:

      *  MUST NOT be empty; issuers MUST omit the claim rather than
         including an empty array;

      *  MUST be ordered from newest covered hop to oldest covered hop;

      *  MUST NOT contain more entries than the visible actor-chain
         depth of the token's act claim;

      *  MUST represent a contiguous outermost prefix of the visible act
         chain.

   If a token carries actor_receipts, it MUST also carry an act claim
   conforming to the core actor profile.

   actor_receipts_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean JWT claim in the outer
      token.  When true, the issuer attests that actor_receipts covers
      every visible hop in the token's act chain.  This attestation is
      relative to the visible chain at the time of token issuance; it
      does not attest that the visible chain is itself unfiltered (see
      chain_complete in the core actor profile
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]).  When
      actor_receipts_complete is true in the outer token, the consumer
      MUST verify that the receipt count equals the visible actor-chain
      depth; if it does not, the consumer MUST reject the token.
      Issuers SHOULD set actor_receipts_complete: true when they emit
      complete coverage, to enable consumers to detect chain truncation.
      Issuers SHOULD set actor_receipts_complete: false when they emit
      partial coverage; omitting the claim is observationally equivalent
      to false for consumers that test only for the literal value true,
      but does not provide a positive attestation that coverage is
      partial.

   This document does not require every delegated token to carry
   actor_receipts.  A deployment that requires provenance receipts uses
   local policy or the metadata defined in Section 10 to express that
   requirement.

7.  Actor Receipt JWT Format

   Each element of actor_receipts is a signed JWT represented using JWS
   compact serialization [RFC7515].

7.1.  JOSE Header

   The JOSE header of an actor receipt:

   *  MUST include an asymmetric digital-signature alg value;

   *  MUST NOT use alg: none or a MAC-based symmetric algorithm;

   *  MUST include typ with the value actor-receipt+jwt;

   *  SHOULD include kid when the issuer publishes multiple verification
      keys;

   *  MAY include crit per [RFC7515]; consumers MUST reject a receipt
      whose crit header lists an extension header the consumer does not
      understand.

   Receipt issuers and consumers MUST apply the JWT best practices in
   [RFC8725].

7.2.  Receipt Claims

   The JWT payload of an actor receipt uses the claims defined below,
   grouped by purpose.

7.2.1.  Identity Claims

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The issuer that created and signed the receipt for
      the corresponding actor hop.  This value identifies the receipt
      signer.

      The act.iss value inside the receipt identifies the namespace
      authority for act.sub, using the meaning defined by the core actor
      profile.  These two values MAY be the same entity or different
      entities.  When they differ, consumers MUST evaluate two distinct
      trust questions:

      *  trust in iss as a receipt signer: whether this issuer's
         signature attests receipts under local policy;

      *  trust in act.iss as the namespace authority for act.sub:
         whether this issuer's namespace produces actor identifiers the
         recipient accepts.

      These evaluations are independent even when the same entity holds
      both roles.  The difference between iss and act.iss alone does not
      make the receipt invalid under this profile.

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The top-level sub value that was present in the
      token issued at this hop.

      Receipt iss is the receipt signer; it is NOT the namespace
      authority for receipt sub.  Receipt sub records the subject
      identifier as it appeared in the token at the represented hop,
      interpreted under the namespace authority that governed that
      token.  That namespace authority is contextual to the represented
      hop and MAY differ across receipts in the same chain (see
      Section 9.1).  Recipients reconciling differing sub values across
      receipts apply trusted local mapping rules; this profile does not
      define an in-band mechanism for cross-namespace subject
      reconciliation.

   sub_profile:  OPTIONAL.  The top-level sub_profile value, when the
      token issued at this hop carried one.

   act:  REQUIRED.  A single-hop actor object.  This object:

      *  MUST conform to the core actor profile's actor-object rules;

      *  MUST include act.sub and act.iss;

      *  MAY include act.sub_profile;

      *  MUST NOT contain cnf;

      *  MUST NOT contain a nested act.

      act.cnf is prohibited to avoid ambiguity between historical key
      binding and a current PoP requirement on the actor; historical
      presenter binding belongs at the receipt's top level (the cnf
      claim), where its role as provenance-only is unambiguous.
      Additional claims permitted by the core actor profile in act
      objects MAY appear in receipt act objects unless explicitly
      prohibited here.  A receipt that carries act.cnf is invalid under
      this profile.

7.2.2.  Historical Presenter Binding

   cnf:  OPTIONAL.  A confirmation claim as defined in [RFC7800].  When
      present, it MUST equal the top-level cnf claim of the token issued
      at this hop.

      Receipt cnf records historical presenter-binding information for
      the hop represented by the receipt.  It does not create a current
      proof-of-possession obligation for the current request.

      Issuers SHOULD NOT include cnf in a receipt unless the relying
      parties that will receive the token have been evaluated for the
      associated disclosure risk; omitting cnf does not invalidate the
      receipt.

7.2.3.  Chain Linkage

   prh:  OPTIONAL.  Previous receipt hash.  When present, prh MUST be
      the base64url-encoded hash of the complete compact serialization
      of the next older receipt in the chain, computed using the
      algorithm identified by prh_alg (defaulting to SHA-256 when
      prh_alg is absent).  The oldest receipt in the chain, including a
      single-element chain in which the sole receipt is both newest and
      oldest, MUST omit prh.

   prh_alg:  OPTIONAL.  Hash algorithm identifier naming the algorithm
      used to compute prh.

      *  Values MUST be drawn from the IANA "Named Information Hash
         Algorithm Registry" [RFC6920], which uses lowercase forms such
         as sha-256, sha-384, and sha-512.

      *  When absent, the default is sha-256.

      *  When present, the value MUST identify a hash algorithm whose
         collision and preimage resistance is at least equivalent to
         sha-256.

      *  All receipts in a single actor_receipts array MUST use the same
         prh_alg value, so that recipients can validate the chain
         without per-receipt algorithm negotiation.

      *  An issuer extending an inbound chain MUST either preserve the
         inbound prh_alg or reject the chain.

7.2.4.  Time and Uniqueness

   iat:  REQUIRED.  The time at which the receipt was created, as
      defined in [RFC7519].

   exp:  REQUIRED.  Expiration time for the receipt, as defined in
      [RFC7519].

      *  exp MUST be set to a value that covers the expected maximum
         token lifetime of any token that will carry or inherit this
         receipt, so that consumer validation of older receipts in a
         valid chain is not prematurely rejected.

      *  Issuers SHOULD set exp to the maximum delegated-token lifetime
         permitted under local policy for tokens that may inherit this
         receipt.

      Downstream issuers reject inbound receipts whose exp precedes the
      issued outer token's exp (Section 8.2), so an under-set exp causes
      propagation failure rather than mid-token-lifetime consumer
      rejection.  Short exp values on receipts limit the window during
      which a compromised receipt signing key can be exploited.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier for the receipt, as defined in
      [RFC7519].

7.2.5.  Outer-Token Binding

   token_id:  RECOMMENDED.  The jti value of the specific outer token
      that this receipt was created for.

      When present, token_id binds the receipt to the specific token
      instance issued at this hop, enabling consumers to detect receipts
      transplanted from a different token whose visible act structure
      happens to match.  Issuers SHOULD include token_id whenever the
      token they are issuing carries a jti claim.

      Consumer verification of token_id is defined in Section 9:

      *  for receipt[0], token_id is independently verifiable when
         receipt[0].iss equals the outer token's iss (the originating-
         issuance case);

      *  for receipts other than receipt[0], token_id records the
         historical outer-token jti at the hop where the receipt was
         created and is informational provenance only.

7.2.6.  Excluded Standard Claims

   aud:  NOT RECOMMENDED.  Issuers SHOULD omit aud from receipts.

      A receipt travels with the outer token to whichever audiences the
      outer token serves.  Receipt validity is anchored to trust in iss,
      the binding to the outer token via token_id and prh, and the outer
      token's own audience scoping.  Including aud in a receipt has no
      defined meaning under this profile.

      This profile diverges from the audience-validation guidance in
      [RFC8725] Section 3.10 because receipts are not validated as
      independent JWTs against an audience; they are validated as part
      of outer-token processing, and the outer token carries the
      audience scoping.  Including aud in a receipt would create
      ambiguity about whether the receipt asserts an audience constraint
      independent of the outer token, which it does not.

7.2.7.  Extension Claims

   A receipt MAY contain additional claims defined by another
   specification or by deployment policy.  Consumers MUST ignore
   unrecognized claims unless another specification or local agreement
   defines their meaning.

7.3.  Receipt-Chain Linkage

   When the issuer creates a new receipt and prepends it to an inherited
   receipt chain:

   *  if there is an older receipt immediately following it in the
      array, the new receipt MUST include prh, and that value MUST hash
      the exact compact JWT string of that next receipt;

   *  if the new receipt is the only receipt in the array, it MUST omit
      prh.

   No JSON [RFC8259] canonicalization is applied.  prh hashes the exact
   compact-serialized JWS string of the next older receipt as carried in
   the array.  Systems that carry, store, or forward actor_receipts
   arrays MUST preserve each compact JWT string byte-for-byte; any
   modification, including semantically equivalent re-encoding,
   invalidates prh for any receipt that references it.

8.  Issuer Processing

   This section defines how an authorization server or Transaction Token
   Service creates, preserves, and extends actor_receipts.

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and creates the
   corresponding receipt, that issuer is the same entity that signs the
   outer token; consequently receipt[0].iss equals the outer token's iss
   for tokens emitted under Section 8.1 or Section 8.2.  Reissuance
   without a new actor hop (Section 8.3) is the only case in which
   receipt[0].iss legitimately differs from the outer token's iss;
   consumer rules in Section 9 use this property to scope the bind-to-
   current checks for receipt[0].

8.1.  Creating the First Receipt

   When an issuer creates a delegated token with a new outermost actor
   hop and no inbound actor_receipts are being preserved, the issuer MAY
   create a new one-element actor_receipts array.

   If it does so, the new receipt:

   *  MUST describe the new outermost actor hop;

   *  MUST set sub to the issued token's top-level sub;

   *  MUST set act.sub and act.iss to the new outermost actor;

   *  MAY copy the issued token's top-level cnf, if any, into the
      receipt cnf, subject to the disclosure considerations in
      Section 7.2; when copied, the receipt cnf MUST equal the outer
      token's cnf value;

   *  SHOULD set token_id to the issued token's jti, if the issued token
      carries a jti;

   *  MUST omit prh.

8.2.  Extending an Existing Receipt Chain

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and also preserves an
   inbound actor_receipts array, it:

   1.  MUST validate the inbound receipt chain by applying the consumer
       processing rules in Section 9 before relying on it or carrying it
       forward.

   2.  MUST verify that each inbound receipt's exp is no earlier than
       the issued outer token's exp.  Carrying a receipt forward whose
       exp precedes the outer token's exp would cause consumers to
       reject the chain mid-token-lifetime under Section 9; an inbound
       receipt that fails this check is treated as failing validation
       under step 1.  Issuers MAY apply a small clock-skew margin to
       this comparison, consistent with the consumer-side skew tolerance
       in Section 9, but MUST NOT broadly accept inbound receipts whose
       exp precedes the issued outer token's exp by more than a
       deployment-defined skew bound.

   3.  MUST preserve each inbound receipt byte-for-byte unchanged.

   4.  MUST create exactly one new receipt for the new outermost actor
       hop.

   5.  MUST prepend that new receipt to the inherited array.

   6.  MUST set the new receipt's prh, if the inherited array is non-
       empty, to the hash, computed using the algorithm named by prh_alg
       (defaulting to SHA-256 when prh_alg is absent), of the exact
       compact serialization of the receipt that is now at the next
       array index.

   7.  MUST propagate prh_alg: if the inherited chain carries prh_alg,
       the new receipt MUST carry the same prh_alg value; if the
       inherited chain omits prh_alg, the new receipt MUST also omit it
       (preserving the SHA-256 default for the entire chain).  An issuer
       that does not support the inbound prh_alg value MUST reject the
       chain rather than rehash, since rehashing would invalidate prior
       issuers' signatures.

   An issuer MUST NOT reserialize, resign, normalize, trim, or otherwise
   alter a prior receipt.

   If inbound receipts fail validation, the issuer MUST NOT propagate
   them.  It MAY continue without actor_receipts only when local policy
   permits partial coverage; otherwise it MUST fail the request under
   the error model of the underlying protocol.

8.3.  Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop

   An issuer that reissues, translates, or introspects and re-emits a
   token without adding a new outermost actor hop:

   *  MAY carry an inbound actor_receipts array forward unchanged;

   *  MUST NOT create a new receipt;

   *  MUST NOT continue to carry an inherited actor_receipts array if it
      cannot preserve the visible hop alignment required by Section 9;

   *  MUST NOT change the outer token's top-level sub while carrying
      inherited receipts forward; a sub change re-expresses subject
      identity and breaks the alignment between receipt[0].sub and the
      outer token's top-level sub that consumers verify under Section 9.

   If such an issuer changes the visible outermost actor, it has added a
   new hop and MUST follow Section 8.2.

   A change in the outer token's top-level cnf value, by itself, does
   not invalidate carried-forward receipts.  Receipt cnf records the
   historical presenter binding in effect when that hop was created.
   The current token's top-level cnf can later change, for example
   because of key rotation or token reissuance, without requiring a new
   receipt so long as the visible actor hop itself is unchanged.

   Reissuance MAY change the outer token's aud, scope, cnf, exp, and
   other claims that bind the current request without requiring updates
   to inherited receipts.  Receipts attest hop history at the time of
   original issuance and are unaffected by later mutations of current-
   request bindings.  Only sub is structurally constrained, because
   changing sub while carrying inherited receipts would break the
   alignment between receipt[0].sub and the outer token's top-level sub
   that consumers verify under Section 9.

   Reissuance under this section is the only case in which receipt[0]
   may legitimately diverge from the current outer-token instance.  Two
   patterns of divergence are possible:

   *  *Different-issuer reissuance*: receipt[0].iss differs from the
      outer token's iss.  For example, an introspection endpoint
      operated as a separate trust principal re-emits the token, or a
      token translator at a domain boundary re-issues under its own
      issuer identity.

   *  *Same-issuer reissuance*: receipt[0].iss matches the outer token's
      iss, but receipt[0].token_id differs from the outer token's jti.
      For example, an authorization server refreshes its own access
      token: the refreshed token is signed by the same AS but carries a
      new jti, while inherited receipts (carried forward unchanged)
      retain the original outer-token jti in token_id.

   Consumer rules in Section 9 relax the bind-to-current token_id check
   for receipt[0] in both reissuance patterns.  Recipients distinguish
   legitimate reissuance from a re-wrapping attack through local policy
   or out-of-band trust framework, as described in Section 13.4.

   Refresh-token reissuance is a special case of reissuance under this
   section.  An AS that supports refresh tokens for delegated access
   tokens MUST persist the actor_receipts array associated with the
   original access token in its token store, so that each refreshed
   access token can carry the receipts forward unchanged.  Receipt exp
   values set under Section 7.2 MUST accommodate the maximum refresh-
   extended access-token lifetime permitted under local policy;
   otherwise downstream issuers will reject inbound chains under
   Section 8.2 as receipts approach expiry, and refresh will silently
   lose receipt-based provenance.

8.4.  Partial Coverage and Full Coverage

   This document permits partial receipt coverage for progressive
   deployment.  An issuer MAY begin a new receipt chain even when older
   inner actor hops remain visible but uncovered.

   However:

   *  a partial chain MUST still cover a contiguous outermost prefix of
      the visible actor chain;

   *  an issuer MUST NOT skip an outer visible hop and receipt only an
      inner visible hop;

   *  when local policy or resource requirements require full
      provenance, the issuer MUST either emit complete receipt coverage
      or fail the request under the error model of the underlying
      protocol.

   When the issuer also filters the visible act chain (see the
   chain_complete introspection member defined in the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]), actor_receipts covers only the
   visible filtered chain.  In that case actor_receipts_complete
   describes coverage relative to the visible filtered chain, not the
   unfiltered delegation chain; recipients that need true-chain
   completeness MUST evaluate chain_complete separately.

8.5.  Transaction Token Service Rebinding

   A Transaction Token Service that establishes a new presenter and
   makes that presenter the new outermost actor follows the same receipt
   rules as any other issuer that adds a new outermost actor hop, as
   defined in Section 8.2 (or Section 8.1 when no inbound actor_receipts
   exist).  This profile does not define additional receipt claims
   specific to Transaction Tokens; any transaction-specific semantics
   remain governed by the Transaction Token itself and its deployment
   profile.

9.  Consumer Processing

   An issuer, resource server, or other recipient that relies on
   actor_receipts MUST perform the following steps.

   1.   Validate the outer token according to its token type and the
        core actor profile.

   2.   If actor_receipts is absent, treat the token as lacking receipt-
        based provenance.  Whether that is acceptable is determined by
        local policy or by Protected Resource Metadata signals such as
        actor_receipts_required and actor_receipts_complete_required
        defined in Section 10.

   3.   Verify that actor_receipts, if present, is a non-empty JSON
        array of strings.

   4.   Verify that the number of receipts does not exceed the visible
        actor-chain depth of the outer token.  If the outer token
        carries actor_receipts_complete: true, verify that the receipt
        count exactly equals the visible actor-chain depth; if it does
        not, reject the token.

   5.   For each receipt, in array order:

        *  parse the string as a compact JWT;

        *  verify that the receipt issuer is within the recipient's pre-
           configured trusted-issuer set before performing any network
           retrieval for that issuer's metadata or keys;

        *  resolve the signing key from the receipt issuer's
           authorization server metadata jwks_uri [RFC8414] (where the
           receipt issuer is identified by the receipt's iss claim,
           which may differ from the outer token's issuer) or from local
           configuration;

        *  validate the JWT signature;

        *  verify that typ equals actor-receipt+jwt;

        *  verify that the receipt act object is single-hop, contains no
           nested act, and contains no cnf;

        *  enforce exp, iat, and other JWT validity rules.  Because exp
           is REQUIRED on receipts and MUST cover the expected outer
           token lifetime, an expired receipt SHOULD be treated as
           invalid even for older hops.  Local policy MAY permit
           continued use of a receipt that is expired by a small clock-
           skew margin, but MUST NOT relax exp enforcement broadly as a
           workaround for issuers that failed to set adequate exp
           values.

        *  for receipt[0] only, when token_id is present: if
           receipt[0].iss equals the outer token's iss AND
           receipt[0].token_id equals the outer token's jti, the receipt
           is anchored to the current outer-token instance (the
           originating-issuance case).  Otherwise (whether because
           receipt[0].iss differs from outer.iss, or because
           receipt[0].iss matches but receipt[0].token_id differs from
           outer.jti), the divergence reflects reissuance per
           Section 8.3, and receipt[0].token_id is not required to equal
           the current outer token's jti.  Same-issuer token_id
           divergence typically reflects refresh-token-driven
           reissuance; different-issuer divergence reflects
           introspection-and-re-emission or similar paths.  In either
           reissuance case, the consumer relies on the trust framework
           in Section 13.4 to distinguish legitimate reissuance from a
           re-wrapping attack.  For receipts other than receipt[0],
           token_id records the historical outer-token jti at the hop
           where the receipt was created, is not independently
           verifiable by the consumer, and is informational provenance
           only.

   6.   Verify receipt-chain linkage:

        *  each receipt other than the oldest MUST include prh;

        *  each non-oldest receipt's prh MUST hash the next older
           receipt using the algorithm named by prh_alg, defaulting to
           sha-256 when prh_alg is absent;

        *  all receipts in the chain MUST carry the same prh_alg value
           (or all omit it); a mixed-algorithm chain MUST be rejected;

        *  the named algorithm MUST be one the recipient supports; a
           chain naming an unsupported algorithm MUST be rejected;

        *  the oldest receipt MUST omit prh.

   7.   Verify visible-hop alignment:

        *  receipt[0].act.sub MUST equal the outer token's act.sub, and
           receipt[0].act.iss MUST equal the outer token's act.iss;

        *  receipt[1].act.sub MUST equal the outer token's act.act.sub,
           and receipt[1].act.iss MUST equal the outer token's
           act.act.iss;

        *  and so on for the number of receipts present;

        *  when act.sub_profile is present in the receipt act object,
           the corresponding visible act object MUST contain
           act.sub_profile with the same value;

        *  when act.sub_profile is present only in the visible act
           object, the receipt remains aligned for this profile.  The
           visible value is not independently attested by that receipt,
           and recipients that require receipt coverage for actor
           classification MUST reject the receipt chain or apply
           explicit local mapping rules.

   8.   Verify that receipt[0].sub equals the outer token's top-level
        sub.  Older receipts MAY carry differing sub values; see
        Section 9.1.

   9.   Treat each receipt cnf value, if present, only as historical
        provenance for that hop.  A mismatch between the current outer
        token's top-level cnf and the outermost receipt cnf MUST NOT by
        itself invalidate the receipt chain under this profile.

   10.  Receipt cnf values MUST NOT replace validation of the current
        request against the outer token's top-level cnf.

   11.  Apply any additional consumer-processing rules defined by
        companion profiles whose claims appear in the receipt or outer
        token (see Section 12).  Companion-profile rules MUST NOT relax
        any requirement in steps 1 through 10; they MAY add additional
        rejection conditions.

   If any required check fails, the recipient MUST reject the receipt
   chain for the purposes of this profile and MUST apply the underlying
   protocol's error handling for the stage at which the failure
   occurred.

9.1.  Subject Re-Expression Across Hops

   Older receipts can carry a different sub value from the current outer
   token when the subject has been re-expressed across issuer
   namespaces.  This document does not define a universal subject-
   mapping algorithm.

   Accordingly:

   *  only receipt[0].sub is required to equal the current outer token
      sub;

   *  older receipt sub values MAY differ;

   *  a recipient that applies stronger continuity requirements across
      older sub values MUST do so under explicit trusted local mapping
      rules.

   Recipients MUST be aware that permitting differing sub values across
   receipts creates a cross-subject insertion risk: a receipt from an
   unrelated subject chain that happens to share the same actor identity
   could satisfy the structural hop-alignment check.

   This risk is not merely accidental.  An attacker who compromises any
   single upstream issuer can deliberately mint receipts for any subject
   in that issuer's namespace and graft them onto a downstream chain
   whose re-expressed sub points to a target subject; the graft
   satisfies structural hop-alignment because the actor identity at the
   grafted hop matches a hop that legitimately occurred for the target.

   This profile provides no in-band mechanism for cross-namespace
   subject reconciliation.

   Deployments where subject continuity is a security requirement SHOULD
   adopt one of the following:

   *  require consistent sub values across all receipts in the chain,
      rejecting re-expressed chains; or

   *  enforce explicit trusted subject-mapping rules that can positively
      confirm each distinct sub value refers to the same underlying
      entity.

   When neither condition is met, the recipient MUST treat the differing
   sub values as unverified subject continuity and MUST NOT rely on
   those older receipts for authorization decisions.

9.2.  Complete Receipt Coverage

   A recipient determines complete receipt coverage by comparing receipt
   count with visible actor depth.  If the number of receipts equals the
   visible actor depth and all validation rules above succeed, the token
   has complete receipt coverage for the visible chain.

   If local policy or resource requirements require full provenance, the
   recipient MUST reject tokens that do not have complete receipt
   coverage.

9.3.  Use by Resource Servers

   Resource servers can use validated actor receipts as provenance input
   for authorization, diagnostics, and audit.  However, a valid receipt
   chain:

   *  proves only that trusted issuers attested specific visible actor
      hops;

   *  does not prove that the current token's audience, scope, or
      expiration were in force when older receipts were created;

   *  does not replace the need to authorize the current token itself;

   *  does not convey authority, authorization, entitlement, or
      delegation rights;

   *  does not imply the represented delegation remains active or
      acceptable under current policy.

   A resource server that bases an authorization decision on receipt
   content alone, without re-evaluating the current outer token and
   current policy, mis-uses this profile.

9.4.  Introspection

   When an authorization server returns actor-receipt information in an
   OAuth Token Introspection response [RFC7662], it:

   *  MAY return actor_receipts using the same array format defined in
      Section 6;

   *  MAY return actor_receipts_complete to indicate whether the
      returned array provides complete coverage for the visible chain as
      known to the introspection server.

   The registered introspection response members are defined in
   Section 10.3; introspection-server failure handling is addressed in
   Section 11.3.

   Introspection is the primary delivery mechanism for receipts
   associated with opaque (non-JWT) outer tokens.  Such tokens cannot
   carry an inline actor_receipts claim; the issuer instead retains the
   receipts in its token store and surfaces them to authorized resource
   servers via introspection.  The receipt format and consumer
   processing rules above apply unchanged in this case, with the
   introspection response substituting for the outer token's claim set.

   An introspection server that suppresses one or more receipts for
   privacy or policy reasons and still returns actor_receipts SHOULD
   return actor_receipts_complete with the value false.

   The core actor profile [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] defines a
   separate chain_complete introspection member that indicates whether
   the visible act chain itself has been filtered.  These two
   completeness signals are distinct: chain_complete: false means the
   introspection server has suppressed inner act hops from the chain
   representation, while actor_receipts_complete: false means receipt
   coverage is partial or filtered.  A token can have chain_complete:
   true (full act chain visible) and actor_receipts_complete: false
   (some receipts suppressed), or vice versa.  Consumers that rely on
   both signals MUST evaluate them independently.  A response with
   chain_complete: false means the receipt array may cover only part of
   the true delegation chain even when actor_receipts_complete: true; in
   that case the receipt coverage is complete only for the visible
   filtered chain, not the full chain.

10.  Discovery and Capability Signaling

   This section defines metadata for advertising support for actor
   receipts.

10.1.  Authorization Server Metadata

   The following parameter is defined for use in Authorization Server
   Metadata [RFC8414]:

   actor_receipts_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      authorization server advertises that it can validate inbound actor
      receipts and can originate, preserve, or extend receipt chains
      according to this document.  This value does not guarantee
      complete historical coverage for every visible hop in every
      resulting token.  When false or absent, clients and relying
      parties MUST NOT assume such support.

   This parameter applies equally to an authorization server that issues
   delegated JWT outputs and to a Transaction Token Service publishing
   metadata through the same framework.

10.2.  Protected Resource Metadata

   The following parameters are defined for use in Protected Resource
   Metadata [RFC9728]:

   actor_receipts_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      resource server indicates that delegated requests are expected to
      carry valid actor receipts covering at minimum the outermost
      visible actor hop.  When false or absent, the resource server
      makes no metadata declaration about receipt-based provenance
      requirements.

   actor_receipts_complete_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true,
      the resource server indicates that it requires complete receipt
      coverage: the receipt count must equal the visible actor-chain
      depth and actor_receipts_complete must be true in the outer token
      or the introspection response.  This parameter refines
      actor_receipts_required; a resource server SHOULD NOT set
      actor_receipts_complete_required: true without also setting
      actor_receipts_required: true.  When false or absent, partial
      receipt coverage is acceptable to the resource server, subject to
      any further local policy.

10.3.  Introspection Response Members

   The following members are defined for use in OAuth Token
   Introspection responses [RFC7662]:

   actor_receipts:  OPTIONAL.  An array of strings using the same syntax
      as the JWT claim of the same name.

   actor_receipts_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      introspection response indicates that the returned actor_receipts
      cover every visible hop in the token chain as known to the
      introspection server.  When false, the response indicates that
      coverage is partial or that the server has filtered or withheld
      one or more receipts.

   Consumer use of these members is described in Section 9.4;
   introspection-server failure handling is addressed in Section 11.3.

10.4.  Out-of-Scope Discovery Signals

   This document does not define a metadata signal for "this resource
   server requires cnf to be present in receipts."  Issuers default to
   omitting receipt cnf for privacy reasons (see Section 7.2 and
   Section 13.10); resource servers that need historical sender-
   constraint provenance MUST coordinate that requirement with issuers
   through deployment policy or a future companion profile, rather than
   through metadata defined here.

10.5.  Claim-Pair Convention for Sibling Profiles

   This document defines the per-hop artifact array actor_receipts
   together with the coverage attestation actor_receipts_complete, and
   the discovery triple (actor_receipts_supported,
   actor_receipts_required, actor_receipts_complete_required).
   Companion profiles that define their own per-hop signed artifacts
   (for example, actor-signed proofs or recipient acknowledgments)
   SHOULD follow the same <name> plus <name>_complete claim-pair
   convention, advertise support with <name>_supported in Authorization
   Server Metadata [RFC8414], and advertise resource-side requirements
   with <name>_required and (if applicable) <name>_complete_required in
   Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728].  Following this convention
   lets recipients evaluate independent companions through the same
   coverage and capability machinery defined here.

11.  Error Handling

   This section defines how receipt-related processing failures map to
   OAuth error responses.  Receipt validation extends the underlying
   OAuth or Transaction Token validation rather than replacing it;
   failures should be reported through the error-response mechanism
   applicable to the stage at which validation occurred.

11.1.  Authorization Server and Transaction Token Service Errors

   When an authorization server or Transaction Token Service rejects a
   token-exchange request because inbound actor_receipts cannot be
   validated under Section 8.2 (signature failure, expired receipt,
   unsupported prh_alg, broken prh chain, hop misalignment, or untrusted
   receipt issuer), it SHOULD return invalid_grant per [RFC8693]
   Section 2.4.

   When the failure reflects an actor-authorization decision rather than
   a structural validation failure, an issuer MAY use actor_unauthorized
   as defined in the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] where applicable.

11.2.  Resource Server Errors

   When a resource server rejects a request because actor_receipts
   validation fails under Section 9, it SHOULD return invalid_token per
   the bearer-token error model in [RFC6750] Section 3.1.

   When the failure is specifically that required receipts are absent or
   coverage is incomplete (per actor_receipts_required or
   actor_receipts_complete_required), the resource server SHOULD include
   an error_description value identifying receipt-coverage failure so
   that clients and operators can distinguish it from generic token-
   validation failures.

11.3.  Introspection Server Behavior

   When an introspection server cannot return receipts that the
   requesting resource server requires, it returns the introspection
   response per [RFC7662] with actor_receipts absent or with
   actor_receipts_complete: false; the resource server then applies its
   local policy to decide whether to accept the token.

   The introspection server itself does not return an OAuth error for
   missing receipts; receipt presence is a property of the introspection
   response, not a precondition for it.

   Consumer use of introspection-returned receipts is described in
   Section 9.4; the registered introspection response members are
   defined in Section 10.3.

11.4.  No New Error Codes

   This document does not define new OAuth error codes.  The mapping
   above reuses existing codes from [RFC8693], [RFC6750], and the core
   actor profile.

12.  Extensibility

   This profile is designed to compose with sibling companion profiles
   that build on the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile].  Companion profiles have four
   standard extension surfaces:

   *  *New claims inside a receipt JWT* for additional per-hop
      attributes (for example, historical scope, additional binding
      data, or extension-specific provenance).  Consumers ignore
      unrecognized claims under Section 7.2 unless another specification
      or local agreement defines their meaning, so additive claims do
      not break the validation rules of this document.

   *  *New top-level claims on the outer token, parallel to
      actor_receipts*, for per-hop artifacts that need their own
      signature semantics (for example, actor-signed proofs whose threat
      model differs from AS-signed receipts, or recipient-signed
      acknowledgments).  Profiles that define such claims SHOULD follow
      the <name> plus <name>_complete claim-pair convention described in
      Section 10.

   *  *New JOSE typ values* for receipt-shaped artifacts that are not
      AS-signed receipts conforming to this document.  The typ value
      actor-receipt+jwt defined here is reserved for receipts conforming
      to this document and MUST NOT be used by other artifacts.

   *  *New outer-token binding claims*, analogous to token_id, that bind
      a receipt to an outer-token field other than jti (for example, a
      workflow correlation identifier).  Such claims are independently
      verifiable on the same terms as token_id; see Section 13.4.

   Companion profile authoring rules:

   *  Companion profiles MAY extend consumer processing under Section 9
      by adding rejection conditions; they MUST NOT relax any rejection
      condition defined here.

   *  Companion-profile claims and discovery metadata MUST be registered
      with IANA in the registries used by this document.

   *  Companion profiles MAY reuse the prh and prh_alg chain-linkage
      construction defined in Section 7.2 when their per-hop signed
      artifacts form a similar chain structure, so that recipients can
      apply a single chain-validation routine across companions.

   *  Companions whose artifacts do not form a chain (for example,
      independent per-hop attestations or recipient acknowledgments that
      are not linked to one another) MAY define their own integrity
      structure.

   Cross-companion alignment: companion artifacts that need to reference
   a specific receipt (for example, an actor-signed proof at hop N
   referencing the corresponding AS-signed receipt at hop N) SHOULD do
   so by the receipt's jti, which is REQUIRED on receipts and unique
   within the issuer's namespace.  This profile does not define a hop-
   index claim; cross-companion alignment is established through jti
   reference plus the prh chain's structural integrity, not through
   array-position metadata.

   Conflict resolution: when a recipient implements multiple companion
   profiles whose rules conflict, local policy determines precedence.
   Companion profiles SHOULD be designed to add, not contradict, other
   profiles' rejection conditions, so that conflicts arise only between
   profiles whose threat models are genuinely incompatible.

13.  Security Considerations

   Actor receipts strengthen provenance for visible actor hops, but they
   do not replace ordinary token validation.  The general OAuth 2.0
   Security Best Current Practice [RFC9700] and the JWT best practices
   in [RFC8725] apply to systems implementing this profile.

13.1.  Threat Model

   This section indexes the adversary classes addressed (and not
   addressed) by this profile.  Detailed mitigations live in
   Section 13.3, Section 13.4, Section 13.6, and Section 9.1.

13.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile

   *  *Compromised downstream issuer fabricating prior-hop provenance.*
      Cannot forge prior issuers' receipt signatures; prh chain prevents
      dropping or reordering inner receipts.  Primary value proposition.

   *  *Token mutation in transit.* Each receipt is independently signed;
      modification invalidates the receipt's signature and any newer
      receipt's prh.

   *  *Receipt transplantation between tokens with matching visible act
      chains.* Outer-token signature prevents non-issuer parties from
      constructing a substitute outer token to host transplanted
      receipts.  receipt[0].token_id provides diagnostic confirmation in
      the originating-issuance case (see Section 13.4); it does not
      extend the threat model beyond the outer-token-signature defense,
      since outer-token issuer compromise is out of scope
      (Section 13.6).

   *  *Partial-coverage misclaim.* An issuer cannot drop an inner
      receipt without breaking the prh chain; actor_receipts_complete:
      true cannot be claimed without a count matching visible chain
      depth.

13.1.2.  Adversaries NOT Mitigated

   *  *Compromised current outer token issuer.* Can assemble a new outer
      token wrapping previously harvested valid receipts for the same
      visible chain prefix.  Defense requires external transparency,
      transaction binding, or replay detection.

   *  *Compromised receipt signing key for any one issuer.* Forged
      receipts indistinguishable from legitimate ones cannot be revoked
      individually.  Remediation: remove the compromised issuer from the
      trusted-issuer set; short receipt exp bounds the exposure window.

   *  *Compromised actor at a hop.* Receipts attest issuer assertions,
      not actor non-repudiation.  Companion profiles (Section 12) can
      address this with actor-signed proofs.

   *  *Cross-namespace subject graft with a compromised upstream
      issuer.* An attacker who compromises one upstream issuer can mint
      receipts for any subject in that issuer's namespace and graft them
      onto a re-expressed downstream chain.  Mitigation: consistent sub
      across the chain or trusted out-of-band subject mapping
      (Section 9.1).

   *  *Replay of an entire token plus its receipts.* This profile does
      not define replay detection; receipts inherit the outer token's
      replay characteristics.

13.1.3.  Trust Model Summary

   Trust is per-issuer and per-deployment, and not transitive across the
   chain.  A receipt chain breaks at the first inner receipt whose
   issuer is not trusted, even when the outer token's issuer and earlier
   receipts are trusted.  Companion profiles (Section 12) can extend the
   addressed adversary set; for example, an actor-signed-proofs
   companion can mitigate the compromised-current-outer-token-issuer
   adversary.

13.2.  Current Presenter Validation

   The current request is always validated against the outer token's
   top-level cnf ([RFC7800]), when present, using the proof mechanism
   appropriate to the token type and deployment, such as DPoP [RFC9449]
   or mutual-TLS [RFC8705].

   Receipt cnf values are historical only:

   *  A recipient MUST NOT treat an older receipt cnf value as
      sufficient proof for the current request, regardless of which
      proof mechanism the historical cnf was bound to.

   *  Recipients MUST distinguish receipt JWTs (identified by typ value
      actor-receipt+jwt) from outer tokens that carry cnf for current-
      request proof-of-possession; receipt cnf records historical
      binding and never satisfies a current-request PoP requirement
      under [RFC7800], [RFC9449], or [RFC8705].

   The current top-level cnf can differ from the outermost receipt cnf
   after a later reissuance or key rotation that does not add a new
   actor hop.  That difference does not by itself invalidate the receipt
   chain under this profile.

13.3.  Trust in Receipt Issuers

   Receipt validation is meaningful only if the recipient trusts the
   issuers that signed the receipts.

   Trust establishment requirements:

   *  A recipient MUST establish which issuers it trusts for receipt
      validation before relying on actor_receipts.

   *  Trust MUST be established through explicit pre-configuration,
      bilateral agreement, federation policy, or another explicit trust
      framework.

   *  A recipient MUST NOT treat the presence of a syntactically valid
      signed receipt as sufficient grounds to trust its issuer.

   *  Authorization servers that support this document SHOULD advertise
      actor_receipts_supported: true in their AS metadata [RFC8414].

   *  Consumers SHOULD use that metadata signal as one input to trust
      establishment, but MUST NOT treat metadata advertisement alone as
      sufficient grounds to trust a receipt issuer; the issuer must also
      be within the recipient's configured trust boundary.

   Key resolution requirements:

   *  To avoid attacker-controlled key resolution, a recipient MUST
      determine whether a receipt iss is within its trusted-issuer set
      before performing any network retrieval for that issuer's metadata
      or keys.

   *  A recipient that uses dynamic discovery for receipt validation
      MUST do so only within an existing trust framework or equivalent
      local policy that defines which issuers are permitted.

   Trust is per-issuer and not transitive: each receipt is validated
   against the recipient's own trusted-issuer set, independent of the
   outer token's issuer or neighboring receipts.  A chain breaks at the
   first inner receipt whose issuer is not trusted; recipients SHOULD
   treat such receipts as absent and apply partial-coverage policy
   (Section 10).  Deployments needing uniform trust across an extended
   chain MUST establish trust explicitly with every receipt issuer that
   may appear in tokens they accept.

13.4.  Receipt-to-Token Binding Limits

   Receipts prove that trusted issuers attested particular actor hops
   and, optionally, historical presenter bindings.  They do not prove
   that the current outer token's audience, scope, expiration, or other
   authorization details were in force when older receipts were created.
   A recipient MUST NOT treat a valid receipt chain as evidence of
   historical authorization scope or audience beyond what the current
   outer token authorizes.

   Receipt-chain integrity rests on two anchors:

   *  receipt[0].token_id, when present and signed by the same issuer
      that signed the outer token, binds receipt[0] to the specific
      outer-token instance and prevents transplantation from a different
      token whose visible act structure happens to match.

   *  prh chains each receipt cryptographically to its older neighbor,
      so all inner receipts inherit their binding from receipt[0]
      through the hash chain.

   Inner receipts' token_id values are not independently verifiable (see
   Section 9); deployments depending on receipt-chain integrity MUST
   rely on prh plus a verifiable receipt[0].token_id, not on inner
   token_id values.  An inner receipt has no independent binding to the
   current request, audience, scope, or token instance; it is bound only
   to its older neighbor through prh and ultimately to the current outer
   token through the chain's single anchor.

   This construction makes coverage tamper-evident at the structural
   level:

   *  An issuer cannot drop an inner receipt without breaking the prh
      chain: the next-newer receipt's prh value would no longer match
      the receipt now in the next array position, and consumer step 6 of
      Section 9 rejects the chain.

   *  An issuer can only fail to include receipts from the outermost end
      of the chain, producing partial coverage that
      actor_receipts_complete: true then forbids the issuer from
      claiming.

   Coverage is therefore truthful within the limits of the trusted-
   issuer set: a compromised issuer can omit some or all of its own
   receipts and any outermost receipts from issuers it controls, but it
   cannot fabricate, reorder, or selectively drop receipts signed by
   other trusted issuers.

   When receipt[0] diverges from the current outer-token instance,
   either because receipt[0].iss differs from outer.iss or because
   receipt[0].iss matches but receipt[0].token_id differs from
   outer.jti, the consumer relaxes the token_id bind-to-current check
   (Section 9) on the assumption that the divergence reflects legitimate
   reissuance per Section 8.3.  In this case:

   *  Recipients rely on the current outer token issuer's authority to
      have performed a legitimate reissuance.

   *  This profile provides no in-band signal distinguishing legitimate
      reissuance from a re-wrapping attack by a compromised issuer, and
      does not define metadata identifying which issuers in a
      recipient's trust set perform reissuance versus only originating
      tokens.

   *  Recipients that need to distinguish reissuing from originating
      issuers MUST establish that distinction through local policy or
      out-of-band trust framework, and SHOULD treat unexpected
      reissuance divergence as cause for additional scrutiny under that
      policy.

   The token_id strict-equality check therefore provides binding only in
   the originating-issuance case (same-issuer, same-jti).  In all other
   cases, transplantation defense rests on the outer token's signature:
   a non-issuer party cannot construct a substitute outer token to host
   transplanted receipts.  Compromise of the outer-token issuer falls
   under Section 13.6 and is out of scope.

   Companion profiles MAY define additional outer-token binding claims
   following the token_id pattern: each records an identifier from the
   outer token at receipt creation, with consumer verifiability
   conditioned on issuer alignment.  Such claims provide parallel
   anchors against other outer-token fields and do not weaken the
   token_id anchor.

13.5.  Hash Algorithm Agility

   prh defaults to a base64url-encoded sha-256 hash of the next older
   receipt.  The prh_alg claim (Section 7.2) signals an alternative hash
   algorithm by reference to the IANA Named Information Hash Algorithm
   Registry [RFC6920], without requiring a successor specification.

   Algorithm coordination requirements:

   *  All receipts in a single chain MUST use the same algorithm.

   *  Consumers MUST reject chains that mix algorithms or that name an
      algorithm the recipient does not support.

   *  An issuer extending an inbound chain MUST preserve the inbound
      prh_alg.

   Migration is whole-chain, not partial: chains begun under one
   algorithm remain on that algorithm for their lifetime; new chains can
   adopt a different algorithm independently.  This profile does not
   define rehashing of inbound receipts, because rehashing would
   invalidate prior signers' prh values and require re-signing receipts
   the extending issuer did not originate.

   Deployments SHOULD begin issuing new chains under the target
   algorithm well before any indication that the legacy algorithm is
   reaching end of life, so legacy chains expire naturally.

13.6.  Compromised Outer Issuer

   Receipts mitigate a compromised or dishonest _downstream_ issuer
   attempting to fabricate prior-hop provenance: that issuer cannot
   forge prior issuers' receipt signatures.

   A compromised current outer token issuer is a different threat.  Such
   an issuer can assemble a new outer token wrapping previously
   harvested valid receipts for the same visible chain prefix.  This
   document does not solve that class of attack; deployments needing
   stronger guarantees can combine this profile with transparency,
   transaction binding, or replay-detection mechanisms outside the scope
   of this document.

13.7.  Receipt Freshness and Replay

   Receipts are historical attestations of past delegation state.  They
   MAY outlive the validity period of the outer token they were
   originally issued for, and MAY be carried forward across reissuance
   and refresh as long as their exp permits (Section 7.2).

   This profile takes a deliberately limited view of receipt freshness:

   *  Receipts attest hop history at the time of original issuance; they
      do not assert that the represented delegation is still active.

   *  Runtime policy evaluation, including current authorization,
      current scope, and current revocation state, is separate from
      receipt validation.  A valid receipt does not guarantee that the
      represented delegation has not been revoked since.

   *  Receipt exp bounds the window during which the receipt is
      structurally usable; it does not bound the lifetime of the
      underlying delegation.

   *  Replay of a receipt within its exp window is not in itself an
      attack.  Receipts are designed to be carried by tokens that
      themselves have replay-detection or sender-constraint properties;
      replay of an entire token plus its receipts is governed by the
      outer token's replay characteristics, not by the receipt chain.

   Deployments needing freshness signals beyond receipt exp, such as
   active delegation status, fresh authorization confirmation, or
   current revocation state, MUST obtain those signals from the AS via
   introspection ([RFC7662]), fresh token issuance, or another mechanism
   outside the scope of this profile.

13.8.  Receipt Signing Key Compromise

   If a receipt issuer's signing key is compromised, previously issued
   receipts signed with that key cannot be individually revoked.  The
   primary remediation is to remove the compromised issuer from the
   trusted-issuer set; once removed, consumers will reject all receipts
   signed by that issuer regardless of their content.

   Deployments SHOULD set short exp values on receipts, consistent with
   the REQUIRED exp defined in Section 7.2, to limit the window during
   which receipts signed with a compromised key remain valid.  When a
   key compromise is detected, deployments SHOULD treat all tokens
   carrying receipts from the affected issuer as lacking trusted
   provenance for those hops and SHOULD require re-issuance through a
   trusted issuer.

13.9.  Receipt Chain Size

   Each receipt is a full signed JWT, and the chain grows linearly with
   delegation depth.  A typical signed receipt is 400 to 800 bytes after
   JWS compact serialization and base64url encoding (the upper end when
   cnf or larger act objects are present).  Chains beyond approximately
   10 hops therefore approach the 8 KB Authorization header budget
   common in HTTP infrastructure; chains beyond approximately 20 hops
   approach a 16 KB practical ceiling.  Figures are illustrative and
   depend on the deployment.

   Deployments SHOULD verify that the outer token plus its
   actor_receipts array fits within the header-size budget of every
   component on the request path.  When introspection is available,
   deployments MAY return receipts via introspection rather than
   embedding them, to avoid header pressure for bearer-token clients.

13.10.  Historical cnf Disclosure

   Receipt cnf values reveal prior-hop public-key identifiers or
   certificate thumbprints to any party that receives the token or
   introspection response.  These are stable identifiers that enable
   cross-request and cross-service correlation of actors and services
   over time.  Issuers SHOULD NOT include cnf in receipts unless the
   relying parties that will receive the token have been evaluated for
   that disclosure risk and the risk is acceptable.  Omitting cnf does
   not invalidate the receipt; it means that hop lacks independently
   attested historical presenter binding, which is acceptable for many
   deployments.

14.  Privacy Considerations

   Actor receipts materially increase delegation transparency and
   observability.  This is useful for audit and provenance, but it is
   privacy-sensitive: receipts disclose information that a non-receipt-
   bearing token does not, and the disclosure can be hard to retract
   once the token has reached recipients.

14.1.  What Receipts Disclose

   Receipts can expose, to any party that receives the token or
   introspection response:

   *  the set of issuers that participated in the delegation chain
      (receipt iss values);

   *  historical presenter-key identifiers across requests, enabling
      cross-session correlation of actors and services;

   *  internal service identities and intermediary actors that a
      deployment might otherwise have kept visible only to intermediate
      issuers;

   *  workload identifiers (e.g., act.sub values) that may reveal
      organizational structure or orchestration topology;

   *  subject re-expression patterns across namespaces, which can reveal
      cross-domain identity mappings.

14.2.  Minimization

   Deployments SHOULD minimize receipt disclosure when full provenance
   is not required:

   *  Issuers and introspection servers MAY suppress actor_receipts
      entirely when policy does not permit disclosure.

   *  Introspection servers returning only partial receipt information
      SHOULD set actor_receipts_complete to false.

   *  Resource servers SHOULD request or require actor receipts only
      when they materially improve authorization, audit, or risk
      controls.

   *  Issuers SHOULD omit cnf from receipts by default when relying
      parties have not been evaluated for historical presenter-key
      disclosure risk (see Section 13.10).

   *  Deployments SHOULD prefer per-resource-server policy on receipt
      requirements over blanket inclusion in every token.

14.3.  Selective Disclosure

   This profile does not define a per-claim selective-disclosure
   mechanism for receipts: chain integrity requires byte-for-byte
   preservation of each receipt JWT, so selective omission of individual
   claims within a receipt would break the chain.  Selective disclosure
   is therefore at the whole-receipt or whole-chain granularity:

   *  Introspection servers MAY suppress entire receipts and signal
      partial coverage via actor_receipts_complete: false.

   *  Issuers MAY emit partial-coverage chains that cover only the
      outermost hops (see Section 8.4).

   Deployments needing finer-grained selective disclosure require a
   future companion profile.

14.4.  Audience Restriction

   A receipt travels with the outer token to whichever audiences the
   outer token serves; receipts have no independent audience scoping
   (Section 7.2).  Deployments needing audience-specific disclosure
   constraints SHOULD partition receipt issuance by audience at issuance
   time (for example, issue receipt-bearing tokens only to audiences
   with adequate disclosure agreements) rather than relying on receipt-
   level audience restriction, which this profile does not provide.

14.5.  Unnecessary Hop Disclosure

   Receipts expose every hop the issuer chose to include.  Some hops may
   be deployment-internal (orchestration layers, internal workload-
   identity services) that the deployment would not otherwise expose to
   relying parties.  Issuers SHOULD evaluate, at issuance time, which
   hops are appropriate to expose to which audiences.  Where inner hops
   are not appropriate to expose, issuers SHOULD use partial coverage
   (omitting the inner-hop receipts) rather than fabricating,
   suppressing, or rewriting visible act chain entries; the latter would
   violate the core actor profile.

14.6.  Cross-Service Correlation

   Stable identifiers in receipts (iss, act.sub, cnf, and any companion
   correlation claim such as a delegation-flow identifier) enable cross-
   service correlation of actors, subjects, and workflows over time.
   Deployments operating in privacy-sensitive contexts SHOULD evaluate
   the correlation risk before enabling receipts:

   *  An audit pipeline that aggregates receipts across services builds
      a graph of who delegated to whom and when, across organizational
      boundaries.

   *  Receipts from a single workflow are tied together via prh chain
      hashes, exposing the delegation graph even when individual hops
      are routed through privacy-preserving infrastructure.

   *  Receipts persist longer than the outer tokens they were issued for
      and may be retained in audit logs indefinitely; correlation risk
      is not bounded by token lifetime.

14.7.  Detached Verification Privacy

   Receipts support detached verification (validation by parties that do
   not have access to the issuing AS's introspection endpoint).  This is
   a feature for auditability but a risk for privacy: any party with the
   token plus the receipt issuer's published verification keys can
   validate the chain, including parties the issuer did not anticipate.
   Deployments SHOULD treat receipt-bearing tokens as carrying their
   full provenance to anywhere the token reaches, and SHOULD scope token
   distribution accordingly.

15.  IANA Considerations

15.1.  Media Type Registration

   This document requests registration of the following media type in
   the "Media Types" registry [RFC6838]:

   *  Type name: application

   *  Subtype name: actor-receipt+jwt

   *  Required parameters: N/A

   *  Optional parameters: N/A

   *  Encoding considerations: 8bit; an actor receipt is a JWS compact-
      serialized JWT [RFC7515] [RFC7519] consisting of base64url-encoded
      segments separated by period (.) characters.

   *  Security considerations: See Section 13 of this document and
      [RFC8725].

   *  Interoperability considerations: N/A

   *  Published specification: This document

   *  Applications that use this media type: Applications that issue,
      exchange, or validate OAuth Actor Receipts.

   *  Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

   *  Additional information:

      -  Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

      -  Magic number(s): N/A

      -  File extension(s): N/A

      -  Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

   *  Person & email address to contact for further information: Karl
      McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Intended usage: COMMON

   *  Restrictions on usage: None

   *  Author: Karl McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Change controller: IETF

   The JOSE typ value actor-receipt+jwt used by this document is the
   media type subtype name without the application/ prefix, following
   common JWT typing practice.

15.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

   This document requests registration of the following JWT Claims in
   the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry [RFC7519]:

   *  Claim Name: actor_receipts

   *  Claim Description: Array of signed actor-hop receipts providing
      delegation provenance

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: actor_receipts_complete

   *  Claim Description: Boolean indicating whether actor_receipts
      covers every visible hop in the token's act chain

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: prh

   *  Claim Description: Base64url-encoded hash of the immediately
      preceding (older) receipt in the actor_receipts chain

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: prh_alg

   *  Claim Description: Hash algorithm identifier (from the IANA Named
      Information Hash Algorithm Registry) naming the algorithm used to
      compute prh

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: token_id

   *  Claim Description: The jti of the specific token instance that
      this actor receipt was created for

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

15.3.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata name in
   the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry [RFC8414]:

   *  Metadata Name: actor_receipts_supported

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates support for validating, issuing,
      preserving, or extending actor-receipt chains

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

15.4.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata names
   in the "OAuth Protected Resource Metadata" registry [RFC9728]:

   *  Metadata Name: actor_receipts_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource expects
      delegated requests to carry valid actor receipts covering at
      minimum the outermost visible actor hop

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Metadata Name: actor_receipts_complete_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource requires
      complete receipt coverage for all visible actor hops

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

15.5.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration

   This document requests registration of the following names in the
   "OAuth Token Introspection Response" registry [RFC7662]:

   *  Name: actor_receipts

   *  Description: Array of signed actor-hop receipts returned by
      introspection

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Name: actor_receipts_complete

   *  Description: Indicates whether the returned actor receipts provide
      complete visible-hop coverage

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

16.  Acknowledgments

   This document builds on the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile], on the OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange
   specification [RFC8693], on the OAuth 2.0 Transaction Tokens work
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens], and on prior OAuth Working Group
   discussion of delegation transparency, sender-constrained tokens, and
   proof-of-possession mechanisms ([RFC7800], [RFC8705], [RFC9449]).
   The author thanks the working group for that foundation.

   Individual contributors and reviewers will be acknowledged in
   subsequent revisions of this document as feedback accumulates.

17.  References

17.1.  Normative References

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6750]  Jones, M. and D. Hardt, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization
              Framework: Bearer Token Usage", RFC 6750,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6750, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6750>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>.

   [RFC6920]  Farrell, S., Kutscher, D., Dannewitz, C., Ohlman, B.,
              Keranen, A., and P. Hallam-Baker, "Naming Things with
              Hashes", RFC 6920, DOI 10.17487/RFC6920, April 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6920>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8705>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9728>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]
              Tulshibagwale, A., Fletcher, G., and P. Kasselman,
              "Transaction Tokens", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens-08, 2 March 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              transaction-tokens-08>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              profile-00, 30 April 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-profile-00>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

17.2.  Informative References

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9700>.

Appendix A.  Examples

   The examples in this appendix show decoded receipt contents.  Real
   receipts are compact-signed JWT strings carried in the actor_receipts
   array.  The iat and exp values shown are illustrative only; in
   deployments, receipt exp is set per Section 7.2 and Section 8.2 so
   that no inbound receipt expires before the outer token that carries
   it.

   Both examples below illustrate the explicit-disclosure pattern:
   receipts include cnf to demonstrate historical sender-constraint
   provenance.  Per Section 7.2, issuers SHOULD omit cnf from receipts
   unless the relying parties that will receive the token have been
   evaluated for the associated disclosure risk.  Privacy-conservative
   deployments produce receipts that are structurally identical to those
   shown but with the cnf claim omitted.

A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Delegation Chain

   The outer token carries the following visible actor chain:

   {
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-0>",
       "<receipt-1>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": true
   }

   actor_receipts[0] is the newest receipt, created by the travel-
   provider AS when it added the booking tool as the new outermost
   actor:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "prh": "0QvKZr5A4XW7N9LQW0u4e7z8k2Kqz6I7xL4V4Vh2nRc",
     "iat": 1776745200,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "c8e29c11-0c3a-4e6f-a0a6-30a52c4a8149",
     "token_id": "d3a1b2c0-9f4e-4a1d-b8e7-12345678abcd"
   }

   actor_receipts[1] is the older receipt, created by the enterprise AS
   when it first added the AI agent:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
       "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
       "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "AgentJKT"
     },
     "iat": 1776741600,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "1d4c4d30-fb6d-4172-b7eb-775b6b9c2b85",
     "token_id": "a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890"
   }

   This example shows the key provenance property of this profile: the
   current token is bound to ToolJKT, while the older receipt preserves
   that the earlier actor hop was bound to AgentJKT when it was created.

A.2.  Example: Transaction Token Service Rebinding

   Suppose the booking tool exchanges the access token above at a TTS,
   and the TTS rebinds the issued Transaction Token to an internal
   workload identified as https://wimse.travel-provider.example/
   payments.

   The resulting Transaction Token can carry:

   {
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://wimse.travel-provider.example/payments",
       "iss": "https://tts.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
         "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
         "sub_profile": "service",
         "act": {
           "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
           "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
           "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
         }
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "PaymentsJKT"
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-tts>",
       "<receipt-0>",
       "<receipt-1>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": true
   }

   The new leading receipt created by the TTS is:

   {
     "iss": "https://tts.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://wimse.travel-provider.example/payments",
       "iss": "https://tts.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "PaymentsJKT"
     },
     "prh": "C4zv2FK0kPjxzJz8F7G3mslmbb0TQmVQvls0gA1lV3Q",
     "iat": 1776747000,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "8b1ab6d1-c345-4bd3-8af2-f302d54444b7",
     "token_id": "f0e1d2c3-b4a5-6789-cdef-012345678901"
   }

   The inherited receipts for the booking tool and the AI agent are
   carried forward unchanged.

A.3.  Example: Partial Receipt Coverage

   When receipt support is rolled out progressively across issuers,
   downstream tokens may carry coverage for only the outermost hops.
   Suppose the enterprise AS has not yet deployed receipt support, and
   the travel-provider AS has.  The enterprise AS issues a delegated
   token introducing the AI agent without a receipt.  The travel-
   provider AS exchanges that token, adds the booking tool as the new
   outermost actor, and creates a single receipt for that hop.

   The resulting access token carries:

   {
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-0>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": false
   }

   The single receipt covers the outermost hop:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "iat": 1776745200,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "9b7a4e30-2c1f-4d8a-9b5e-f0e8a3c4b6d2",
     "token_id": "d3a1b2c0-9f4e-4a1d-b8e7-12345678abcd"
   }

   prh is omitted because this is a single-element chain.
   actor_receipts_complete: false signals to recipients that the inner
   AI-agent hop is uncovered.  Resource servers that set
   actor_receipts_complete_required: true in their Protected Resource
   Metadata reject this token; resource servers that accept partial
   coverage validate the receipt-attested outermost hop and treat the
   inner hop as carried solely by the visible act chain, with no
   independent receipt-level provenance.

A.4.  Example: Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop

   Suppose the access token from the Two-Hop Delegation Chain example is
   introspected by an introspection endpoint operated as a separate
   trust principal from the originating travel-provider AS, and re-
   emitted as a JWT for an internal service.  Re-emission does not add a
   new outermost actor hop; the visible act chain is unchanged.  Per
   Section 8.3, the re-emitting issuer carries the inbound
   actor_receipts array forward unchanged and does not create a new
   receipt.

   The re-emitted token's claims:

   {
     "iss": "https://introspection.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.example.com/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.example.com/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-0>",
       "<receipt-1>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": true,
     "jti": "f4a7b9c2-1d3e-4f5a-8b6c-7d8e9f0a1b2c"
   }

   The receipts are bit-identical to those in the Two-Hop Delegation
   Chain example.  Two divergences from the originating-issuance pattern
   are visible at the outer-token level:

   *  outer.iss is https://introspection.travel-provider.example, while
      receipt[0].iss remains https://as.travel-provider.example.  This
      divergence is legitimate under Section 8.3.

   *  outer.jti is f4a7b9c2-1d3e-4f5a-8b6c-7d8e9f0a1b2c, while
      receipt[0].token_id remains d3a1b2c0-9f4e-4a1d-b8e7-12345678abcd
      (the original outer token's jti).  This divergence is also
      legitimate.

   Per consumer step 5 of Section 9, the consumer relaxes the bind-to-
   current token_id check for receipt[0] because receipt[0] diverges
   from the current outer-token instance.  This example illustrates the
   different-issuer pattern (receipt[0].iss differs from outer.iss); the
   same relaxation applies to the same-issuer pattern, in which an
   authorization server refreshes its own token and the new outer-token
   jti differs from receipt[0].token_id while iss matches.  In both
   patterns, trust that the divergence reflects legitimate reissuance
   rather than a re-wrapping attack rests on the recipient's local
   policy regarding which issuers in its trust set perform reissuance
   under this profile, as described in Section 13.4.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
