



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                          8 October 2026
Expires: 11 April 2027


                     OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs
               draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs-latest

Abstract

   This document defines OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs, an optional
   companion to the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation.  Each proof is a
   signed JSON Web Token (JWT) recording an actor's participation and
   authorized target for one hop.  The actor_proofs claim carries a
   hash-linked chain verified through trusted actor-key sources.  This
   document specifies proof conveyance, validation, optional links to
   Actor Receipts, metadata parameters, and introspection response
   members.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile/
   draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs.html.  Status information for
   this document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (mailto:oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 11 April 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Relationship to the Actor Receipts Companion
     1.2.  Relationship to Other Actor-Evidence Work
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  The actor_proofs Claim
   4.  Actor Proof JWT Format
     4.1.  JOSE Header
     4.2.  Proof Claims
       4.2.1.  Identity Claims
       4.2.2.  Target Binding
       4.2.3.  Chain Linkage
       4.2.4.  Sibling Receipt Reference
       4.2.5.  Time and Uniqueness
       4.2.6.  Outer-Token Binding
       4.2.7.  Excluded Standard Claims
       4.2.8.  Extension Claims
     4.3.  Proof-Chain Linkage
   5.  Conveying Proofs at Issuance
   6.  Issuer Processing
     6.1.  Accepting a Proof for a New Actor Hop
     6.2.  Extending an Existing Proof Chain
     6.3.  Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop
     6.4.  Partial Coverage and Full Coverage
     6.5.  Transaction Token Service Rebinding
     6.6.  Sibling Receipt Issuance
   7.  Consumer Processing
     7.1.  Subject Re-Expression Across Hops
     7.2.  Complete Proof Coverage
     7.3.  Use by Resource Servers
     7.4.  Introspection
   8.  Discovery and Capability Signaling
     8.1.  Authorization Server Metadata
     8.2.  Protected Resource Metadata
     8.3.  Introspection Response Members
   9.  Error Handling
     9.1.  Authorization Server and Transaction Token Service Errors
     9.2.  Resource Server Errors
     9.3.  Introspection Server Behavior
   10. Extensibility
   11. Security Considerations
     11.1.  Threat Model
       11.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile
       11.1.2.  Adversaries Not Mitigated
     11.2.  Current Presenter Validation
     11.3.  Actor Key Resolution and Trust
     11.4.  Proof-to-Token Binding Limits
       11.4.1.  Target-Binding Strict Mode
     11.5.  Hash Algorithm Agility
     11.6.  Downgrade by Omission
     11.7.  Proof Freshness and Replay
     11.8.  Actor Key Compromise
     11.9.  Proof Chain Size
     11.10. Sibling Revocation Independence
   12. Privacy Considerations
     12.1.  What Proofs Disclose
     12.2.  Minimization
     12.3.  Selective Disclosure
     12.4.  Audience Restriction
     12.5.  Detached Provability
   13. IANA Considerations
     13.1.  Media Type Registration
     13.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration
     13.3.  OAuth Parameters Registration
     13.4.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration
     13.5.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration
     13.6.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration
   14. Acknowledgments
   15. References
     15.1.  Normative References
     15.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Examples
     A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Delegation Chain with Sibling Receipts
     A.2.  Example: Proofs-Only Partial Coverage
   Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] makes actor identity visible in
   delegated tokens through a common act claim.  The OAuth Actor
   Receipts companion [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] adds
   authorization-server-signed per-hop provenance.  Both are issuer
   assertions: an authorization server attests that an actor was added
   at a hop.  Nothing in either profile requires the actor's own
   cryptographic participation, so a compromised or dishonest issuer can
   fabricate the participation of an actor that never authorized the
   delegation.

   This document defines OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs, an optional
   companion profile that adds actor-side evidence.  At each covered
   hop, the actor signs its participation and authorized target; the AS
   validates the proof and includes it in actor_proofs, and recipients
   verify the actor's signature through trusted key sources.  The design
   center is:

   *  keep the visible actor chain in act;

   *  keep authorization-server-signed provenance in actor_receipts when
      the receipts companion is in use;

   *  carry actor-signed participation and hop-time target consent in
      separately signed proofs.

   This profile adds the actor_proof token request parameter, the
   actor_proofs and related claims, and discovery metadata.  It does not
   define transparency logging of proofs.

1.1.  Relationship to the Actor Receipts Companion

   The AS signs receipts; the actor signs proofs.  A token MAY carry
   either, both, or neither, and recipients select a validation posture
   by local policy:

   *  *Receipts-only*: proofs are absent or ignored; trust follows
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

   *  *Proofs-only*: receipts are absent or ignored; trust rests on
      actor-key resolution and actor signatures.

   *  *Belt-and-suspenders*: both are validated, providing independent
      issuer-side and actor-side attestations for covered hops, linked
      by the sibling references in Section 6.6.

   Receipts and proofs are separate compact JWTs, rather than one JWS
   with both signatures over a shared payload (JWS JSON Serialization,
   Section 7.2 of [RFC7515]), because their signers, adoption
   prerequisites, and threat models differ.  Receipts require only
   issuer support, whereas proofs also require actors capable of signing
   and a trusted actor-key source for every actor whose proof a
   recipient uses (Section 11.3), which can require more configuration
   than trusting the smaller set of receipt issuers; deployments can
   rely on receipts for actors without signing keys.  Separate artifacts
   keep the two trust anchors independent (Section 11.1) and let
   deployments adopt, validate, and hash-chain issuer and actor evidence
   independently.

1.2.  Relationship to Other Actor-Evidence Work

   Several concurrent efforts add actor-side or issuer-side delegation
   evidence to OAuth deployments; they differ from this profile chiefly
   in where the evidence is carried, who signs it, and who can verify
   it.

   *  [I-D.mw-oauth-actor-chain] retains actor-signed step proofs at the
      AS and carries an issuer-signed cumulative commitment in the
      token, so actor-signature verification depends on AS retention.
      This profile instead carries the proofs for direct recipient
      verification, increasing token size at each hop.

   *  [I-D.liu-oauth-chain-delegation] carries AS-signed hop records
      inline, optionally countersigned by the delegator.  Those fields
      carry no target binding, and records are re-signed at domain
      boundaries.

   *  [I-D.jiang-oauth-intent-admission] defines a single-hop intent
      artifact signed by the admission authority.

   The distinguishing property of this profile is a recipient-verifiable
   artifact, signed by the actor itself before issuance, over an
   explicit target binding.  This comparison is intended to inform, not
   preempt, working group discussion of convergence.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses OAuth terminology from [RFC6749] and [RFC8693],
   and Transaction Token terminology from
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens].  AS, RS, and TTS denote
   authorization server, resource server, and Transaction Token Service,
   respectively.  Actor Receipt and Receipt Chain are defined in
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].  Outer Token denotes the token
   associated with a proof chain, whether or not it also carries
   receipts.

   The following terms are used in this document:

   Actor Proof:  A JWT created and signed by the actor added at one
      visible actor hop, attesting to that actor's participation and the
      target binding it authorized for that hop.

   Proof Chain:  The ordered actor_proofs array carried in a token or
      introspection response.

   Actor Signing Key:  An asymmetric key controlled by an actor and used
      to sign actor proofs.  This document does not standardize how
      actor signing keys are established; see Actor Key Resolution and
      Trust (Section 11.3).

   Actor-Key Source:  A mechanism, trusted by a recipient under explicit
      local policy, that resolves an actor identifier pair (act.iss,
      act.sub) to one or more actor verification keys.

   Target Binding:  The audience and optional resource constraints that
      the actor authorized for the token issued at its hop, carried in
      the proof's target claim.  A target binding records hop-time
      consent; it is not an audience restriction on the proof artifact
      itself.

   Sibling Receipt:  The Actor Receipt, if any, created under
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] for the same visible actor
      hop as a proof.

   Complete Proof Coverage:  The condition in which the number of proofs
      in the actor_proofs claim equals the number of visible actor hops
      in the token's act chain, and every proof aligns with the
      corresponding visible hop.

   Examples in this document are illustrative and omit unrelated claims,
   signatures, and validation steps that a complete deployment would
   need.

3.  The actor_proofs Claim

   The actor_proofs claim is a new top-level JWT claim for tokens that
   conform to the core actor profile and to this companion profile.

   actor_proofs:  OPTIONAL.  An array of strings.  Each string MUST be
      the compact serialization of a signed JWT proof as defined in
      Section 4.  When present, the array:

      *  MUST NOT be empty; issuers MUST omit the claim rather than
         including an empty array;

      *  MUST be ordered from newest covered hop to oldest covered hop;

      *  MUST NOT contain more entries than the visible actor-chain
         depth of the token's act claim;

      *  MUST represent a contiguous outermost prefix of the visible act
         chain.

   If a token carries the actor_proofs claim, it MUST also carry an act
   claim conforming to the core actor profile.

   actor_proofs_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean JWT claim in the outer
      token.  When true, the issuer attests that the actor_proofs claim
      covers every visible hop in the token's act chain.

      The attestation is relative to the visible chain at issuance time;
      it does not attest that the visible chain is itself unfiltered
      (see chain_complete in the core actor profile
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]).  Consumer enforcement,
      including the count-equality check, is defined in step 4 of
      Section 7.

      Issuers SHOULD set actor_proofs_complete to true for complete
      coverage and false for partial coverage.  An absent value provides
      no completeness attestation; consumers that require the literal
      value true treat absence as false.

4.  Actor Proof JWT Format

   Each element of the actor_proofs array is a signed JWT represented
   using the JWS compact serialization [RFC7515].

4.1.  JOSE Header

   The JOSE header of an actor proof:

   *  MUST include an asymmetric digital-signature alg value;

   *  MUST NOT use alg: none or a MAC-based symmetric algorithm;

   *  MUST include typ with the value actor-proof+jwt;

   *  SHOULD include kid when the actor's key source publishes multiple
      verification keys;

   *  MAY include crit; a proof whose crit header lists an extension
      header the consumer does not understand is invalid per
      Section 4.1.11 of [RFC7515].

   Actors, issuers, and consumers MUST apply the JWT best practices in
   [RFC8725] when creating and validating proofs, except for the
   audience requirements of Section 3.9 of [RFC8725], from which this
   profile departs by prohibiting aud as described in Section 4.2.

4.2.  Proof Claims

4.2.1.  Identity Claims

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The identifier of the actor that signed the proof.
      It MUST equal the proof's act.sub value.

      The iss value is interpreted within the namespace given by
      act.iss.  A bare iss MUST NOT serve as the sole key-resolution or
      trust index; use (act.iss, act.sub) as specified in Section 11.3.

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The subject identifier on whose behalf the actor
      authorized the delegation, as known to the actor at signing time.
      actor_proofs[0].sub MUST equal the outer token's top-level sub.
      Older proofs' sub values can differ (Section 7.1).

   sub_iss:  OPTIONAL.  The namespace authority under which the proof's
      sub value is interpreted, with the semantics defined for the
      sub_iss claim in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].  When
      sub_iss is absent, the namespace is determined as for a receipt
      that omits it.

   act:  REQUIRED.  A single-hop actor object identifying the signing
      actor.  This object:

      *  MUST conform to the core actor profile's actor-object rules;

      *  MUST include act.sub and act.iss;

      *  MUST NOT contain cnf;

      *  MUST NOT contain a nested act.

      The act claim supplies the namespace context and visible-hop
      alignment.

      The token's act chain can retain confirmation members as extension
      data under the core actor profile; the proof's actor object omits
      them and still satisfies visible-hop alignment (step 7 of
      Section 7).

   This profile defines no subject sub_profile claim for proofs; subject
   classification remains issuer-asserted.  Actor classification can
   appear in act.sub_profile.

4.2.2.  Target Binding

   target:  REQUIRED.  A JSON object recording the target binding the
      actor authorized for the token issued at this hop.  Its members
      are:

      target.aud:  REQUIRED.  A string or array of strings.  The
         audiences the actor authorizes for the token issued at this
         hop.

      target.resource:  OPTIONAL.  An array of URIs with the semantics
         of the resource request parameter of [RFC8707].  When present,
         it narrows the target binding beyond target.aud.

      Issuer-side enforcement at the covered hop is defined in
      Section 6.1, and consumer evaluation in step 9 of Section 7.

      Other specifications MAY define extension members.  An extension
      member MUST be defined with constraining semantics only: its
      presence narrows what the actor authorized and its absence leaves
      the binding as expressed by the defined members.  Consumers MUST
      ignore unrecognized target members unless another specification or
      local agreement defines their meaning; actors MUST NOT rely on
      unrecognized extension members being enforced.

4.2.3.  Chain Linkage

   prh:  OPTIONAL.  The previous proof hash, computed over the next
      older proof in the chain; the oldest proof, including the sole
      proof of a single-element chain, omits it.

      This profile reuses the prh and prh_alg claims from
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] with the same construction,
      applied to proof JWTs.  The proof chain is linked independently of
      any receipt chain carried in the same token: each companion's prh
      values hash that companion's own artifacts.

   prh_alg:  OPTIONAL.  An identifier naming the hash algorithm used to
      compute prh.  The value, consistency, and extension rules of the
      receipt prh_alg claim apply to proof chains.

      *  When absent, the default is sha-256.

      *  The proof chain's prh_alg is independent of the receipt chain's
         prh_alg in the same token; the two chains MAY use different
         algorithms.

4.2.4.  Sibling Receipt Reference

   receipt_jti:  OPTIONAL.  The jti of the sibling receipt created for
      the same hop under [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

      To include this claim, the actor needs a prospective receipt
      identifier.  Most deployments instead use the receipt's proof_jti
      claim, which the issuer sets after validating the proof
      (Section 6.6).  Consumer step 10 validates both references.

4.2.5.  Time and Uniqueness

   iat:  REQUIRED.  The time at which the proof was signed, as defined
      in [RFC7519].

   exp:  REQUIRED.  Expiration time for the proof, as defined in
      [RFC7519].

      The exp value needs to cover the lifetime of any token that will
      carry or inherit this proof (Section 6).  Longer validity supports
      delegated sessions but also extends exposure to key compromise and
      proof reuse (Section 11.4).

      With instance binding through receipts in strict mode or a
      provisioned origin_jti (Section 11.4), exp MAY cover the delegated
      session only while the outer token stays instance-bound.  Refresh
      or reissuance ends instance binding, so actors SHOULD keep proof
      exp short when the token can be refreshed or reissued.  Without
      instance binding, exp SHOULD be short to limit proof reuse.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier for the proof, as defined in
      [RFC7519].

4.2.6.  Outer-Token Binding

   origin_jti:  OPTIONAL.  The jti of the outer token issued at the hop
      this proof covers, following the pattern of the origin_jti claim
      defined in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

      This requires provisioning the prospective token identifier before
      signing.  Consumer step 9 evaluates it; see also Section 11.4.

      A Transaction Token Service MAY include jti in a Transaction
      Token, because Section 9.2 of [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]
      permits additional claims; without it, a Transaction Token's proof
      chain is never instance-bound.

4.2.7.  Excluded Standard Claims

   aud:  Prohibited.  Actors MUST NOT include aud in a proof, and
      consumers MUST reject a proof that carries it (step 5 of
      Section 7).

      Proofs are validated as part of outer-token processing, not as
      independent JWTs against an audience; the outer token carries the
      audience scoping for the request, and the actor's consented
      audiences are carried in target.aud.  This profile departs from
      Section 3.9 of [RFC8725] on those grounds.  Rejecting a proof that
      carries aud produces the result that Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7519]
      requires when the processing principal does not identify itself
      with the aud value.

4.2.8.  Extension Claims

   A proof MAY contain additional claims defined by another
   specification or by deployment policy.  Consumers ignore unrecognized
   claims unless another specification or local agreement defines their
   meaning, per Section 4 of [RFC7519].

4.3.  Proof-Chain Linkage

   When an actor signs a new proof that extends an inherited proof
   chain:

   *  if there is an older proof immediately following it in the array,
      the new proof MUST include prh, and that value MUST be the
      base64url encoding, without padding, of the hash of the ASCII
      octets of the exact compact JWT string of that next proof;

   *  if the new proof is the only proof in the array, it MUST omit prh.

   The hash input is the exact compact JWS string, without JSON
   [RFC8259] canonicalization.  Systems that carry, store, or forward
   actor_proofs arrays MUST preserve each proof byte-for-byte.

5.  Conveying Proofs at Issuance

   This document defines one token request parameter:

   actor_proof:  OPTIONAL.  The compact serialization of a single actor
      proof JWT for the new outermost actor hop of the requested token.
      A request carries at most one actor_proof parameter (Section 3.2
      of [RFC6749]).

   The parameter is defined for token endpoint requests that produce
   delegated tokens under the core actor profile, including OAuth 2.0
   Token Exchange [RFC8693] requests and JWT assertion grants.  A
   Transaction Token request made over HTTP is a Token Exchange request
   (Section 11 of [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]) and carries the
   proof in the actor_proof parameter; other Transaction Token Service
   interfaces convey the proof by equivalent means.

   The AS authenticates the actor and derives its identity under the
   core actor profile, then separately validates the proof
   (Section 6.1).  The actor_proof parameter supplies participation and
   consent evidence; it does not serve as the actor_token parameter and
   does not authenticate the request.

   This document does not define a challenge mechanism by which an
   authorization server provides prospective values (such as the outer
   token's jti, a receipt's jti, or the newest inbound proof for opaque
   inbound tokens) to the actor before signing.  Deployments and
   companion profiles MAY define such mechanisms; the origin_jti and
   receipt_jti claims are the intended insertion points.

6.  Issuer Processing

   This section defines how an authorization server or Transaction Token
   Service accepts, validates, embeds, preserves, and extends
   actor_proofs.

   When a proof that the issuer retains from an inbound token or refresh
   state has an exp earlier than the exp the issuer would set for the
   issued token, the issuer:

   1.  MAY lower the issued token's exp to the earliest exp among the
       retained proofs;

   2.  otherwise, where local policy permits absent coverage, MUST drop
       the actor_proofs array;

   3.  otherwise, MUST fail the request with the invalid_grant error
       code on a refresh or JWT bearer grant request (Section 5.2 of
       [RFC6749]), or the invalid_request error code on a Token Exchange
       request (Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693]).

6.1.  Accepting a Proof for a New Actor Hop

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and the token request
   carries the actor_proof parameter, the issuer:

   1.  MUST validate the proof's structure per Section 4: typ value,
       asymmetric alg, presence and JSON types of the REQUIRED claims
       iss, sub, act, target (including target.aud), iat, exp, and jti,
       the absence of aud, and the single-hop act rules.

   2.  MUST verify that the proof's (act.iss, act.sub) pair equals the
       actor identifier pair the issuer will emit as the new outermost
       visible act object, and that the proof's iss equals the proof's
       act.sub.  Deployment configuration supplies the actor with the
       act.iss value the issuer will emit.  When the proof carries
       act.sub_profile, the issuer MUST verify that it matches, under
       the set comparison of step 7 of Section 7, the act.sub_profile
       the issuer emits for the new outermost actor.

   3.  MUST verify that the proof's sub equals the top-level sub of the
       token being issued.  An issuer that re-expresses the subject at
       this hop MUST NOT embed the proof; re-expression breaks the
       alignment between actor_proofs[0].sub and the outer token's top-
       level sub that consumers verify under Section 7.

   4.  MUST resolve the actor's verification key through an actor-key
       source trusted under the issuer's local policy and validate the
       proof's signature (Section 11.3).

   5.  MUST verify that the proof's exp is no earlier than the issued
       outer token's exp, and that iat is plausible under the issuer's
       clock-skew policy.

   6.  MUST NOT issue an outer token whose aud or effective resource
       indicators exceed the proof's target binding.  Every audience of
       the issued token MUST be present in target.aud, and every
       effective resource indicator MUST equal an entry of
       target.resource under simple string comparison (Section 6.2.1 of
       [RFC3986]) when that member is present.  When target.resource is
       present and the request supplies no resource indicators, the
       issuer uses target.resource as the effective resource indicators
       and MUST NOT issue a token whose effective resources exceed it.
       On a request other than Token Exchange, the issuer MAY narrow the
       issued resource indicators to fit the target binding, as
       Section 2.2 of [RFC8707] leaves acceptable resources to its
       policy.  On a Token Exchange request, it does not drop a
       requested audience or resource, because both name targets where
       the requested token must be usable (Section 2.1 of [RFC8693]);
       Section 9 gives the error to return when the requested target
       cannot be issued within the target binding after any narrowing.

   7.  MUST verify, when the proof carries origin_jti, that it equals
       the issued token's jti, and, when the proof carries receipt_jti
       and the issuer creates a sibling receipt for this hop
       (Section 6.6), that it equals that receipt's jti.

   8.  MUST include the validated proof as actor_proofs[0] of the issued
       token, subject to the chain rules below.

   When no inbound actor_proofs are being preserved, the proof starts a
   new chain and MUST omit prh.  The resulting one-element array
   constitutes complete coverage only when the visible act chain has
   depth 1; Section 3 governs how the issuer sets actor_proofs_complete
   in each case.

   If proof validation fails, the issuer MUST NOT embed the proof.  When
   local policy or the deployment's resource requirements require actor-
   signed evidence for the issuance, the issuer MUST fail the request
   under the error model of Section 9; otherwise it MAY issue the token
   without actor_proofs.

6.2.  Extending an Existing Proof Chain

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and also preserves an
   inbound actor_proofs array, it:

   1.  MUST validate the inbound proof chain by applying the consumer
       processing rules in Section 7 before relying on it or carrying it
       forward.

   2.  MUST verify that each inbound proof's exp is no earlier than the
       issued outer token's exp, applying the lifetime rule in Section 6
       when an inbound proof's exp is earlier than the exp the issuer
       would set.  Issuers MAY apply a small clock-skew margin to this
       comparison, consistent with the consumer-side skew tolerance in
       Section 7, but MUST NOT broadly accept inbound proofs whose exp
       precedes the issued outer token's exp by more than a deployment-
       defined skew bound.

   3.  preserves each inbound proof byte-for-byte, as required by
       Section 4.3.

   4.  MUST accept exactly one new proof, conveyed per Section 5 and
       validated per Section 6.1, for the new outermost actor hop.
       Without a valid new proof, the issuer MUST NOT carry the inbound
       actor_proofs array forward; it continues without proofs where
       local policy permits absent coverage, and otherwise MUST fail the
       request under Section 9.

   5.  MUST verify that the new proof's prh equals the hash of the exact
       compact serialization of the inbound array's newest proof,
       computed using the algorithm named by the inherited prh_alg
       (defaulting to SHA-256 when absent), and MUST verify that the new
       proof's prh_alg matches the inherited chain's value or is omitted
       when the chain omits it.  An issuer that does not support the
       inbound prh_alg MUST reject the chain rather than rehash;
       rehashing would invalidate prior actors' signatures.

   6.  MUST prepend the new proof to the inherited array.

   7.  MUST NOT set actor_proofs_complete to true unless every inbound
       proof validated and the issued token's proof count equals its
       visible actor-chain depth, and SHOULD set it to false otherwise.

   Byte-for-byte preservation (Section 4.3) precludes reserializing, re-
   signing, normalizing, trimming, or otherwise altering a prior proof.

   The actor needs to know the newest inbound proof's exact
   serialization, or its hash and prh_alg, before signing.  For an
   inbound JWT, the actor can read actor_proofs[0].  For an opaque
   inbound token, the deployment needs to supply that information
   through a mechanism it defines (Section 5).  If that information is
   unavailable, the issuer MUST NOT accept a proof without prh as a
   chain extension; it MAY instead start a new chain under Section 6.1
   where local policy permits partial coverage (Section 6.4).

   If inbound proofs fail validation, the issuer MUST NOT propagate
   them.  It MAY continue without them only when local policy permits
   partial or absent coverage, and MAY then begin a new chain at its own
   hop under Section 6.1; the result is partial coverage and MUST NOT
   carry actor_proofs_complete: true.  Otherwise it MUST fail the
   request under the error model of the underlying protocol.

6.3.  Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop

   An issuer that reissues, translates, or introspects and re-emits a
   token without adding a new outermost actor hop:

   *  MAY carry an actor_proofs array received in an inbound token or
      its introspection response forward unchanged, and MUST first
      validate it against that token under Section 7, as step 1 of
      Section 6.2 requires for extension; an array the issuer retained
      across refresh follows the refresh rules below instead.  If the
      array fails validation, the issuer MUST NOT carry it forward, and
      MUST fail the request under the error model of the underlying
      protocol unless local policy permits the issued token to lack it;

   *  MUST NOT accept or embed a new proof, and MUST reject, with the
      invalid_request error code (Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]), a request
      that carries an actor_proof parameter;

   *  MUST preserve actor_proofs_complete when carrying the array
      unchanged.  If it cannot attest that value, the issuer MUST drop
      the whole array;

   *  MUST NOT continue to carry an inherited actor_proofs array if it
      cannot preserve the visible hop alignment required by Section 7;

   *  MUST NOT change the top-level sub claim while retaining proofs;
      doing so breaks alignment with actor_proofs[0].sub;

   *  MUST NOT set the outer token's exp later than the earliest exp
      among the retained proofs, and applies the lifetime rule in
      Section 6 when it would otherwise set a later exp.

   If such an issuer changes the visible outermost actor, it has added a
   new hop and MUST follow Section 6.2.

   If reissuance exceeds the newest proof's target binding, the issuer
   MUST drop actor_proofs unless deployment agreement designates it, for
   the recipients of the reissued token, as a trusted reissuing issuer
   permitted to retarget (Section 11.4.1).  A reissued token with a new
   jti diverges from a present actor_proofs[0].origin_jti
   (Section 11.4.1).

   An actor that intends its proof to remain usable after a later
   redemption without a new hop, for example an Identity Assertion JWT
   Authorization Grant that a Resource Authorization Server redeems
   ([I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]), can include the known
   downstream audiences in target.aud, subject to its consent policy.
   This addresses audience divergence only: a new jti still diverges
   from a present origin_jti (Section 11.4.1), and a changed subject or
   the proof's expiry still ends the proof's use for the redeemed token.

   If proofs are dropped while receipts remain, inherited proof_jti
   references become informational.  Recipients that require bound
   siblings enforce proof presence through the actor_proofs_required or
   actor_proofs_complete_required metadata parameter, or through local
   policy.

   An AS that supports refresh tokens for delegated access tokens
   carrying proofs:

   *  needs to retain the actor_proofs array in issuer-controlled state
      across refresh, either in durable storage (for example, a token-
      state database or refresh-token state) or embedded in a self-
      contained refresh token, so that each refreshed access token can
      carry the proofs forward unchanged.

   *  takes the array from that retained state rather than from the
      previous access token: it validates the refresh request per
      Section 6 of [RFC6749], checks the retained proofs against its
      issuance state, and neither requires the previous access token to
      remain unexpired nor re-runs Section 7 against it.

   *  applies the lifetime rule in Section 6 to each refreshed access
      token.  Refresh ends instance binding, so proof exp sizing for
      refreshed tokens follows the short-exp guidance in Section 4.2.

   *  after dropping actor_proofs under that rule, restores actor-signed
      evidence only through a new delegated issuance that adds a hop
      with a fresh proof, because refresh adds no actor hop.

6.4.  Partial Coverage and Full Coverage

   This document permits partial proof coverage to support progressive
   deployment.  An issuer MAY begin a new proof chain even when older
   inner actor hops remain visible but uncovered.  When local policy or
   resource requirements require full actor-signed evidence, the issuer
   MUST either emit complete proof coverage or fail the request under
   the error model of the underlying protocol.

   Partial coverage leaves the oldest hops uncovered, including the
   original subject-to-actor delegation.  Deployments needing evidence
   for that hop should enable proof support at the origin and its actors
   first.

   When an introspection server filters the visible act chain (see the
   chain_complete introspection member defined in the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]), the actor_proofs member covers
   only the visible filtered chain.  In that case, the
   actor_proofs_complete member describes coverage relative to the
   visible filtered chain, not the unfiltered delegation chain;
   recipients that need true-chain completeness MUST evaluate the
   chain_complete member separately.

6.5.  Transaction Token Service Rebinding

   A Transaction Token Service that establishes a new presenter and
   makes that presenter the new outermost actor follows the same proof
   rules as any other issuer that adds a new outermost actor hop, as
   defined in Section 6.2 (or Section 6.1 when no inbound actor_proofs
   array exists).  The new presenter is the signing actor for the new
   proof.

6.6.  Sibling Receipt Issuance

   When a deployment uses both this profile and
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], the issuer that adds a hop
   creates the receipt and embeds the proof for that hop in the same
   issuance operation.  The two artifacts are siblings: independent
   attestations of the same hop by different signers.

   This document defines the following extension claim for Actor Receipt
   JWTs, under the extension-claims rule of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]:

   proof_jti:  OPTIONAL.  The jti of the proof the receipt issuer
      validated for the same hop.  When the issuer embeds a proof and
      creates a sibling receipt for one hop, the receipt SHOULD include
      proof_jti equal to that proof's jti.

   Byte-for-byte preservation keeps the proof_jti value fixed, making
   later proof substitution detectable through sibling validation (step
   10 of Section 7).

7.  Consumer Processing

   An issuer, resource server, or other recipient that relies on
   actor_proofs MUST perform the following steps.

   1.   Validate the outer token according to its token type and the
        core actor profile.

   2.   If actor_proofs is absent, treat the token as lacking actor-
        signed evidence.  Local policy or Protected Resource Metadata
        parameters such as actor_proofs_required and
        actor_proofs_complete_required defined in Section 8 determine
        whether that is acceptable.  If actor_proofs_complete is present
        with the value true while actor_proofs is absent, the
        combination is malformed; the recipient MUST treat this as a
        failed required check and apply the rejection rule following
        step 11.

   3.   Verify that actor_proofs, if present, is a non-empty JSON array
        of strings.  Verify that actor_proofs_complete, if present, is a
        JSON boolean.

   4.   Verify that the number of proofs does not exceed the visible
        actor-chain depth of the outer token.  If the outer token
        carries actor_proofs_complete: true, verify that the proof count
        exactly equals the visible actor-chain depth; if it does not,
        the check fails.

   5.   For each proof, in array order:

        *  parse the string as a compact JWT;

        *  verify that the JOSE header uses an asymmetric digital-
           signature alg value accepted for that actor, and reject
           proofs that use alg: none or a MAC-based symmetric algorithm
           (Section 3.1 of [RFC8725]);

        *  verify that the typ header parameter equals actor-proof+jwt;

        *  verify that the proof's (act.iss, act.sub) pair is within the
           scope of an actor-key source the recipient trusts, before
           performing any network retrieval keyed by the proof's
           content;

        *  resolve the actor's verification key from that source
           (Section 11.3);

        *  validate the proof signature;

        *  reject a proof whose crit header parameter lists an extension
           header parameter that the recipient does not understand;

        *  verify that all REQUIRED proof claims are present and have
           the expected JSON types, including iss, sub, act, target with
           target.aud, iat, exp, and jti;

        *  verify that OPTIONAL claims used by this profile have the
           expected JSON types when present, including sub_iss,
           target.resource, prh, prh_alg, receipt_jti, and origin_jti;

        *  reject a proof that carries an aud claim (Section 4.2);

        *  verify that the proof act object is single-hop, contains no
           nested act, and contains no cnf, and that the proof iss
           equals the proof act.sub;

        *  enforce the exp and iat claims and other JWT validity rules.
           An expired proof is invalid even for an older hop; only the
           small clock-skew leeway of Section 4.1.4 of [RFC7519]
           applies.

   6.   Verify proof-chain linkage:

        *  each proof other than the oldest MUST include prh;

        *  each non-oldest proof's prh MUST hash the next older proof
           using the algorithm named by prh_alg, defaulting to sha-256
           when prh_alg is absent;

        *  all proofs in the chain MUST carry the same prh_alg value (or
           all omit it); a mixed-algorithm chain MUST be rejected;

        *  the named algorithm MUST be one the recipient supports; a
           chain naming an unsupported algorithm MUST be rejected;

        *  the oldest proof MUST omit prh.

   7.   Verify visible-hop alignment:

        *  actor_proofs[0].act.sub MUST equal the outer token's act.sub,
           and actor_proofs[0].act.iss MUST equal the outer token's
           act.iss;

        *  actor_proofs[1].act.sub MUST equal the outer token's
           act.act.sub, and actor_proofs[1].act.iss MUST equal the outer
           token's act.act.iss;

        *  and so on for the number of proofs present;

        *  when act.sub_profile is present in the proof act object, the
           corresponding visible act object MUST contain act.sub_profile
           with the same value.  sub_profile values are compared as
           sets: the space-delimited values are compared case-
           insensitively, their order is insignificant, and duplicate
           values are ignored (Section 3.3 of
           [I-D.mora-oauth-entity-profiles]); comparison never rewrites
           a signed proof;

        *  when act.sub_profile is present only in the visible act
           object, the proof remains aligned for this profile.  The
           actor does not attest the visible value, and recipients that
           require actor-signed evidence for actor classification MUST
           reject the proof chain or apply explicit local mapping rules.

   8.   Verify subject alignment:

        *  actor_proofs[0].sub MUST equal the outer token's top-level
           sub;

        *  when actor_proofs[0].sub_iss is present and the recipient has
           a top-level subject namespace authority for the outer token's
           sub from local configuration, an inbound subject token's
           claims, or another deployment-defined source, the two MUST
           identify the same namespace authority, evaluated by case-
           sensitive string comparison; treating lexically distinct
           identifiers as the same authority requires explicit trusted
           local mapping rules;

        *  older proofs MAY carry differing sub or sub_iss values.  This
           acceptance is structural only: authorization that depends on
           subject equivalence across those proofs is subject to the
           continuity rules of Section 7.1.

   9.   Evaluate outer-token binding and target binding:

        *  when actor_proofs[0].origin_jti is present and equals the
           outer token's jti, the proof chain is bound to the current
           outer-token instance; when it is present and differs, the
           chain has diverged: Section 11.4.1 decides whether the
           recipient rejects it (rejection is the default), and an
           accepted value is historical provenance;

        *  when actor_proofs[0].origin_jti is absent, the proof chain
           carries no instance binding of its own; this is not by itself
           a validation failure;

        *  verify that every audience of the outer token is present in
           actor_proofs[0].target.aud, and, when the outer token's
           effective resource indicators are determinable from token
           claims, the introspection response, or trusted local context,
           that each equals an entry of actor_proofs[0].target.resource
           under simple string comparison (Section 6.2.1 of [RFC3986])
           when that member is present.  A recipient that cannot
           determine the outer token's effective resources treats the
           proof as consent to the audience only, not as divergence, and
           MUST NOT infer resource-level consent.  A token whose
           audience or resources exceed the newest proof's target
           binding has also diverged; Section 11.4.1 decides whether the
           recipient rejects the chain (rejection is the default) and
           limits an accepted chain to participation evidence, not actor
           consent to the current target;

        *  target bindings of proofs other than actor_proofs[0] are
           historical consent for their own hops.  The recipient MUST
           NOT evaluate them against the current outer token's audience
           or resources.

   10.  Verify sibling references, when the token also carries
        actor_receipts validated under
        [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]:

        *  for each index i covered by both arrays, when
           actor_receipts[i] carries proof_jti, it MUST equal
           actor_proofs[i].jti, and when actor_proofs[i] carries
           receipt_jti, it MUST equal actor_receipts[i].jti;

        *  a mismatched sibling reference MUST cause the recipient to
           reject both receipt-based and proof-based provenance for the
           token;

        *  a sibling reference that names an artifact at an index not
           covered by the other array is unverifiable; recipients whose
           policy requires bound siblings MUST reject the token's proof-
           based provenance, and other recipients MUST treat the
           reference as informational only;

        *  when receipts are absent or not validated, receipt_jti values
           are informational only.

   11.  Apply any additional consumer-processing rules defined by
        companion profiles whose claims appear in the proof or outer
        token (see Section 10).

   Step 1 is a prerequisite: an outer token that fails its own
   validation is rejected under the rules for its token type, not
   treated as lacking proofs.  If any later required check fails, the
   recipient MUST reject the proof chain and treat the token as lacking
   actor-signed evidence (step 2).  The recipient rejects the token only
   when local policy or Protected Resource Metadata requires that
   evidence, using the underlying protocol's error handling for the
   stage at which the failure occurred.

   A recipient that has rejected a proof chain under this profile MAY,
   under explicit local policy, extract structural information from the
   chain for use by companion profiles.  The recipient MUST NOT treat
   such partial validation as conformance with this profile, and MUST
   NOT relax the rejection requirements defined above.

7.1.  Subject Re-Expression Across Hops

   Older proofs can carry a sub value that differs from that of the
   current outer token when the subject has been re-expressed across
   issuer namespaces between hops.  This document does not define a
   universal subject-mapping algorithm; step 8 of Section 7 requires
   only actor_proofs[0].sub to equal the current outer token's sub.

   Permitting differing sub values across proofs creates a cross-subject
   insertion risk: a proof signed by a legitimate actor for an unrelated
   subject's delegation could satisfy the structural hop-alignment check
   when the actor identity at that hop matches.  An attacker who
   compromises any single actor signing key can sign proofs naming any
   subject and any target, and graft them onto a downstream chain whose
   re-expressed sub identifies a victim subject.

   Deployments where subject continuity is a security requirement SHOULD
   adopt one of the following:

   *  require exact, namespace-aware matching of subject identifiers
      across all proofs (the same sub under the same namespace
      authority; see sub_iss in Section 4.2.1); or

   *  enforce explicit trusted subject-mapping rules that can positively
      confirm that each distinct subject identifier refers to the same
      underlying entity.

   When neither condition is met, the recipient MUST treat subject
   continuity as unverified and MUST NOT rely on older proofs whose
   subject identifiers (sub or sub_iss) differ to support authorization
   that requires subject continuity (for example, a decision that treats
   every covered hop as having acted for the current token's subject).

7.2.  Complete Proof Coverage

   Coverage is structurally complete when all validation succeeds and
   the proof count equals the visible actor-chain depth.  This suffices
   when local policy requires only structural completeness.

   When Protected Resource Metadata sets actor_proofs_complete_required:
   true, the token or introspection response MUST also carry
   actor_proofs_complete: true.  Recipients MUST reject tokens that fail
   the applicable completeness requirement.

7.3.  Use by Resource Servers

   Resource servers can use validated proofs as evidence for
   authorization, diagnostics, and audit, subject to the limits in
   Section 11.1, with or without receipts.  Such use rests on the
   validated top-level actor_proofs claim: nested act objects remain
   informational for access control (Section 4.1 of [RFC8693]), and a
   prior actor is an authorization input only as a hop covered by a
   proof validated under Section 7.  However, a valid proof chain:

   *  proves only that the covered actors signed their participation and
      hop-time target bindings;

   *  does not prove that the represented delegation remains active,
      authorized, or acceptable under current policy;

   *  does not prove that any authorization server validated the hop;
      that attestation is the receipts companion's role;

   *  does not remove the need to authorize the current token itself;

   *  does not convey authority, authorization, entitlement, or
      delegation rights;

   *  is not actor consent to the current request; it is actor consent
      to the hop-time issuance within the recorded target binding.

   Current authorization decisions MUST evaluate the current outer
   token, current policy, and current state, not the proof chain alone.

7.4.  Introspection

   When an authorization server returns actor-proof information in an
   OAuth Token Introspection response [RFC7662], it:

   *  MAY return the actor_proofs member using the same array format
      defined in Section 3;

   *  MAY return the actor_proofs_complete member to indicate whether
      the returned array provides complete coverage for the visible
      chain as known to the introspection server.

   For opaque tokens, the issuer stores proofs and returns them to
   authorized resource servers through introspection.  The same format
   and consumer rules apply, with the introspection response serving as
   the outer token's claim set.

   An introspection response carrying proofs MUST include the members
   needed for Section 7: the token's top-level sub, the visible act
   chain, the token's aud, and the token's iss.  It SHOULD include the
   jti member when maintained by the server; without it, the response
   supplies no instance binding under step 9.  If present, the
   actor_proofs_complete member MUST be a boolean.

   An RS receiving both inline and introspected proofs MUST select an
   authoritative source under local policy.  If it consumes both,
   differing arrays or completeness values MUST cause rejection of
   proof-based provenance.

   An introspection server MUST return the full stored array or omit
   actor_proofs.  Removing an older entry breaks the prh chain; removing
   the newest entry breaks hop alignment.  A server that filters the
   visible act chain can still return the full array when it filters
   only inner actors that no proof covers; if it filters a covered
   actor, it MUST omit both actor_proofs and actor_proofs_complete.
   When the introspection server returns a stored array that it knows
   has partial coverage, it MUST include actor_proofs_complete: false.

   For an inactive token, the introspection server MUST NOT return
   actor_proofs or actor_proofs_complete.

8.  Discovery and Capability Signaling

   This section follows the claim-pair and discovery conventions defined
   in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

8.1.  Authorization Server Metadata

   The following parameter is defined for use in Authorization Server
   Metadata [RFC8414]:

   actor_proofs_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      authorization server advertises that it accepts the actor_proof
      token request parameter, validates proofs against actor keys, and
      embeds, preserves, or extends proof chains according to this
      document.  This value does not guarantee complete coverage for
      every visible hop in every resulting token.  When false or absent,
      the AS makes no claim of such support.

   This parameter applies equally to an authorization server that issues
   delegated JWT outputs and to a Transaction Token Service publishing
   metadata through the same framework.

8.2.  Protected Resource Metadata

   The following parameters are defined for use in Protected Resource
   Metadata [RFC9728]:

   actor_proofs_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      resource server indicates that delegated requests are expected to
      carry valid actor proofs covering at minimum the outermost visible
      actor hop.  When false or absent, the resource server makes no
      metadata declaration about actor-signed evidence requirements.

      Unlike receipt issuance, proof creation involves the actor
      directly: an actor that can sign proofs MAY use this declaration,
      together with actor_proofs_supported in Authorization Server
      Metadata, to decide whether to include the actor_proof parameter
      in its token requests.  The declaration also serves deployment
      coordination and expresses the enforcement posture under which
      this profile's anti-fabrication property holds (Section 11.6).

   actor_proofs_complete_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true,
      the resource server indicates that it requires complete proof
      coverage: the proof count needs to equal the visible actor-chain
      depth and actor_proofs_complete needs to be true in the outer
      token or the introspection response.  This parameter refines
      actor_proofs_required; a resource server SHOULD NOT set
      actor_proofs_complete_required: true without also setting
      actor_proofs_required: true.  When false or absent, partial proof
      coverage is acceptable to the resource server, subject to any
      further local policy.

   No metadata parameter indicates that a resource server requires bound
   siblings (proof_jti on receipts); deployments that need bound
   siblings coordinate that requirement through deployment policy.

8.3.  Introspection Response Members

   The following members are defined for use in OAuth Token
   Introspection responses [RFC7662]:

   actor_proofs:  OPTIONAL.  An array of strings using the same syntax
      as the JWT claim of the same name.

   actor_proofs_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      introspection response indicates that the returned actor_proofs
      cover every visible hop in the token chain as known to the
      introspection server.  When false, the response makes no
      attestation of complete coverage.

   Consumer use of these members is described in Section 7.4;
   introspection-server failure handling is addressed in Section 9.3.

9.  Error Handling

   Proof validation failures use the underlying protocol's error
   mechanism for the stage at which validation occurs.  This document
   defines no new OAuth error codes.

9.1.  Authorization Server and Transaction Token Service Errors

   When an authorization server or Transaction Token Service rejects a
   token request because an inbound actor_proofs chain or a newly
   submitted proof cannot be validated (signature failure, key-
   resolution failure for an actor outside the trusted key sources,
   expired proof, unsupported prh_alg, broken prh chain, hop or subject
   misalignment), it returns an error response per Section 5.2 of
   [RFC6749]: invalid_request for a Token Exchange request, as
   Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693] requires, or invalid_grant for a JWT
   bearer grant request (Section 3.1 of [RFC7523]), consistent with the
   core actor profile's error mapping for actor information that fails
   validation.

   When the requested target cannot be issued within the submitted
   proof's target binding after any narrowing under Section 6.1, the
   issuer SHOULD return invalid_target, per Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693]
   for a Token Exchange request and Section 2 of [RFC8707] for other
   token requests.

   When the failure reflects an actor-authorization decision rather than
   a structural validation failure, the issuer uses the
   actor_unauthorized error code, as the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] requires.  An absent required
   proof, whether an actor_proof parameter or an inbound actor_proofs
   array, is an input-validation failure: the issuer returns the
   invalid_request error code for a Token Exchange request and the
   invalid_grant error code for a JWT bearer grant or refresh request.

9.2.  Resource Server Errors

   When a resource server rejects a request because actor_proofs
   validation fails under Section 7, it SHOULD return invalid_token per
   the bearer-token error model in Section 3.1 of [RFC6750].  For a
   Transaction Token, the recipient instead rejects the token through
   the deployment's Transaction Token handling, because
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens] defines no error response for a
   rejected Transaction Token.

   When the failure is specifically that required proofs are absent or
   coverage is incomplete (per actor_proofs_required or
   actor_proofs_complete_required), the resource server SHOULD include
   an error_description value identifying proof-coverage failure so that
   clients and operators can distinguish it from generic token-
   validation failures.

9.3.  Introspection Server Behavior

   When an introspection server cannot return proofs that the requesting
   resource server requires, it returns the introspection response per
   [RFC7662] with actor_proofs absent, or with a partial array and
   actor_proofs_complete: false; the resource server then applies its
   local policy to decide whether to accept the token.

10.  Extensibility

   This profile composes with the extensibility framework defined in
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] and adds proof-specific
   extension surfaces:

   *  *New claims inside a proof JWT* for additional per-hop actor-
      attested attributes.  Consumers ignore unrecognized claims under
      Section 4.2 unless another specification or local agreement
      defines their meaning.

   *  *New target extension members* with constraining semantics, per
      the extension rule in Section 4.2.  Specifications needing actor
      consent at scope or action granularity extend target rather than
      redefining it.

   *  *Challenge and provisioning mechanisms* that supply prospective
      values to the actor before signing (Section 5); such mechanisms
      strengthen instance binding without changing proof processing.

   *  *Actor events between hops*, such as consent to a changed target.
      Companion profiles SHOULD use a JWT type distinct from actor-
      proof+jwt, a parallel outer-token array, and an anchor to a proof
      jti or defined flow identifier, following the non-hop event
      pattern of [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].  Companion
      profiles MUST NOT add event entries to actor_proofs, which is
      reserved for the actor-signed hop proofs defined by this document.

   *  *Multi-actor co-signed hops* are outside the scope of this
      document and would require a successor or companion profile with
      its own artifact structure.

   Companion profile authoring rules:

   *  Companion profiles MAY extend consumer processing under Section 7
      by adding rejection conditions; they MUST NOT relax any
      requirement needed for conformance to this profile.  This does not
      change the separately scoped partial-validation rule that follows
      step 11 of Section 7.

   *  Companion profiles that define per-hop signed artifacts SHOULD
      follow the claim-pair and discovery conventions of
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], and MAY reuse the prh and
      prh_alg chain-linkage construction.

   Conflict resolution: when a recipient implements multiple companion
   profiles whose rules conflict, local policy determines precedence.

11.  Security Considerations

   The general OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice [RFC9700] and
   the JWT best practices in [RFC8725], except its audience requirements
   for proof JWTs (see aud in Section 4.2), apply to systems
   implementing this profile.

11.1.  Threat Model

11.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile

   *  *Current outer-token issuer fabricating actor participation.* The
      issuer cannot forge the actor's signature at proof-covered hops,
      provided the recipient requires proofs (Section 11.6) and resolves
      actor keys independently of that issuer (Section 11.3).

   *  *Current issuer exceeding the actor-authorized target at the
      covered hop.* Issuer-side enforcement (Section 6.1) and step 9 of
      Section 7 detect a token exceeding the newest proof's target
      binding, subject to Section 11.4.1.

   *  *Compromised downstream issuer fabricating prior-hop
      participation.* Such an issuer cannot forge prior actors' proof
      signatures, and the prh chain prevents it from dropping or
      reordering inner proofs.

   *  *Token mutation in transit.* Each proof is independently signed;
      modification invalidates the proof's signature and any newer
      proof's prh.

   *  *Partial-coverage misclaim.* An issuer cannot drop an inner proof
      without breaking the prh chain, and it cannot claim
      actor_proofs_complete: true unless the proof count matches the
      visible actor-chain depth.  It can withhold coverage only at the
      innermost end, and only by beginning a new chain rather than
      trimming an inherited one.

   *  *Proof-chain substitution, when receipts with proof_jti are
      present.* Replacing a proof chain with one whose identifiers
      differ from the receipts' proof_jti values fails the sibling check
      in step 10 of Section 7.

11.1.2.  Adversaries Not Mitigated

   *  *Compromised actor signing key.* Forged proofs are
      indistinguishable from legitimate ones and cannot be revoked
      individually (Section 11.8).

   *  *Issuer omission of proofs.* Omission is a downgrade, not merely
      denial of service, against recipients that do not require proofs
      (Section 11.6).

   *  *Proof re-embedding within the validity window.* Any holder of a
      valid proof, including the issuer it was submitted to, can embed
      it in another token with matching context (Section 11.4).

   *  *Malicious or coerced actor.* Proofs attest that the actor's key
      signed the participation, not the actor's intent; neither
      companion detects an actor colluding with a compromised issuer.

   *  *Cross-subject graft with a compromised actor key.* Deployments
      where subject continuity is a security requirement limit this
      threat through the subject-matching options in Section 7.1.

   *  *Replay of an entire token plus its proofs.* This profile does not
      define replay detection; proofs inherit the outer token's replay
      characteristics.

11.2.  Current Presenter Validation

   When the outer token carries a top-level cnf claim ([RFC7800]), the
   current request is always validated against it, using a mechanism
   such as DPoP [RFC9449] or mutual-TLS [RFC8705].

   An actor proof does not substitute for that validation:

   *  A recipient MUST NOT treat a proof signature as satisfying a
      proof-of-possession requirement for the current request,
      regardless of whether the proof signing key is the same key as a
      presenter key.

   *  Recipients MUST distinguish proof JWTs (identified by the typ
      value actor-proof+jwt) from artifacts that carry current-request
      proof-of-possession semantics under [RFC7800], [RFC9449], or
      [RFC8705].

11.3.  Actor Key Resolution and Trust

   Trust is per-actor-key and per-deployment, and is not transitive: a
   proof chain fails validation if any proof's signing key cannot be
   resolved through an actor-key source the recipient trusts (step 5 of
   Section 7).  Proofs and receipts have independent trust anchors;
   validating both survives compromise of either the issuer side or the
   actor side, but not of both.

   Trust establishment requirements:

   *  A recipient needs to establish its trusted actor-key sources
      before relying on actor_proofs, through explicit pre-
      configuration, bilateral agreement, federation policy, or another
      explicit trust framework.

   *  A recipient MUST NOT treat the presence of a syntactically valid
      signed proof as sufficient grounds to trust the key that signed
      it.

   *  A recipient MUST NOT dereference key references supplied by the
      proof itself (such as jku or x5u header parameters) outside a pre-
      established trust framework, per [RFC8725].

   *  Key resolution and trust evaluation use the (act.iss, act.sub)
      pair, checked in step 5 of Section 7 before any retrieval.  The
      bare proof iss string is not a resolution index on its own
      (Section 4.2.1), and identical act.sub strings under different
      namespace authorities are different actors.

   This document profiles two resolution patterns; a deployment can
   support either or both:

   *  *Pre-established keys*, registered in advance, for example as a
      registered OAuth client's JWKS at the authorization server or as
      keys configured at a resource server.  This pattern provides the
      strongest independence properties; attestation-based client
      authentication [I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] is
      an interoperable way to establish such keys.

   *  *Federation and workload identity systems*, with the trust and
      freshness properties of the underlying system, such as OAuth
      SPIFFE client authentication [I-D.ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth].

   The independence requirement follows from the threat model: for the
   anti-fabrication property against a given issuer to hold at a hop,
   the recipient MUST resolve the actor's key for that hop through a
   source independent of that issuer.

11.4.  Proof-to-Token Binding Limits

   Without instance binding, any holder of a proof, including the issuer
   it was submitted to, can reuse it in another token with the same
   subject, actor, and target within its validity window; the signature
   evidences consent to that context, not to a particular token
   issuance.

   Available bindings:

   *  *Receipts composition.* When the token also carries receipts, the
      receipt chain's origin_jti anchoring and strict-mode rules in
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] bind the token instance, and
      proof_jti (Section 6.6) binds the proof chain to it; re-embedding
      then requires a fabricated receipt, which only an issuer able to
      sign trusted receipts can produce.  This is the RECOMMENDED
      posture for deployments that already use receipts and require
      instance binding.

   *  *Provisioned origin_jti.* Binds the proof to the outer-token
      instance directly when the actor receives the prospective jti
      before signing (step 9 of Section 7).

   *  *jti uniqueness monitoring.* Recipients and audit pipelines MAY
      track proof jti values and flag the same proof appearing in more
      than one outer-token instance.

   *  *Short exp.* Bounds the re-embedding window unconditionally, at
      the cost of shorter delegated sessions (Section 4.2).

   Receipts composition relies on the receipt issuer's assertion and a
   provisioned origin_jti on the actor's own signature; neither binding
   signs the outer token's other contents.  Inner proofs inherit
   whatever binding actor_proofs[0] has through prh.

11.4.1.  Target-Binding Strict Mode

   An outer token diverges from its proof chain when its audience or
   effective resources exceed actor_proofs[0]'s target binding, or when
   its jti differs from a present actor_proofs[0].origin_jti.  A
   recipient MUST reject a divergent proof chain unless local policy
   designates the outer token issuer as a trusted reissuing issuer.
   Designation as a trusted reissuing issuer excuses only jti divergence
   unless local policy also permits that issuer to retarget.  Recipients
   that have not explicitly configured a set of trusted reissuing
   issuers therefore operate in strict mode by default, rejecting every
   divergent chain.

   Strict mode is the recommended default.  A recipient accepting target
   divergence MUST treat proofs only as participation evidence and MUST
   NOT infer consent to the current audience or resources.  With
   receipts, it SHOULD apply one reissuance-trust decision to both
   companions.

11.5.  Hash Algorithm Agility

   The prh and prh_alg agility rules of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] apply to proof chains
   unchanged: one algorithm per chain, whole-chain migration only, no
   rehashing of inherited artifacts, and rejection of mixed or
   unsupported algorithms.

11.6.  Downgrade by Omission

   An issuer fabricating actor participation omits actor_proofs rather
   than forging a proof, so a recipient that accepts delegated tokens
   without proofs has no protection from this profile against it.

   Accordingly:

   *  Resource servers that rely on actor-signed evidence MUST require
      proofs, through actor_proofs_required (and
      actor_proofs_complete_required where inner hops matter) or
      equivalent local policy, for the delegated tokens they accept.

   *  Recipients SHOULD treat the absence of proofs from an issuer that
      advertises actor_proofs_supported: true, for a resource that
      requires them, as a signal warranting scrutiny rather than silent
      acceptance.

11.7.  Proof Freshness and Replay

   Proofs are historical attestations of hop-time consent, carried
   forward only in tokens that expire no later than they do
   (Section 6.3); they do not show that the delegation is still active
   or that the actor would consent today.  Deployments that need
   freshness signals beyond proof exp obtain them via introspection
   ([RFC7662]), fresh token issuance, or another mechanism outside the
   scope of this document.

11.8.  Actor Key Compromise

   Remediation for a compromised actor signing key is to remove the key
   or actor from the recipient's trusted actor-key sources; a short
   proof exp (Section 4.2) limits how long proofs signed with it remain
   valid.  When a key compromise is detected, deployments SHOULD treat
   tokens carrying proofs from the affected actor as lacking trusted
   actor-signed evidence for those hops and SHOULD require fresh
   delegation with fresh proofs.

11.9.  Proof Chain Size

   Each proof is a signed JWT of typically 400 to 800 bytes, comparable
   to a receipt, and the chain grows linearly with delegation depth;
   carrying both companions roughly doubles the per-hop bytes.
   Deployments SHOULD verify that the outer token plus its companion
   arrays fits within the header-size budget of every component on the
   request path; the receipts companion's size guidance applies, and
   introspection delivery avoids header pressure for bearer-token
   clients.

11.10.  Sibling Revocation Independence

   A proof does not inherit revocation or trust state from its sibling
   receipt, or the reverse: removing a receipt issuer from the trusted-
   issuer set under [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] leaves proofs
   for the same hops valid under their own actor keys.  Recipients that
   require issuer-side revocation semantics for a hop MUST require
   receipt validation alongside proof validation rather than relying on
   the proof alone; the sibling references of Section 6.6 identify the
   receipt whose trust state applies to a hop.

12.  Privacy Considerations

12.1.  What Proofs Disclose

   Proofs can expose, to any party that receives the token or
   introspection response:

   *  cryptographically transferable evidence of each covered actor's
      participation, retained and provable beyond token lifetime;

   *  actor key identifiers (kid values and resolved public keys), which
      are stable correlation handles across proofs, flows, and services;

   *  target bindings (target.aud, target.resource), which can reveal
      internal audience and resource identifiers a deployment would not
      otherwise expose to all recipients;

   *  the delegation graph of a workflow, tied together by prh chain
      hashes;

   *  subject re-expression patterns across namespaces, as with
      receipts.

12.2.  Minimization

   Deployments SHOULD minimize proof disclosure when actor-signed
   evidence is not required:

   *  Issuers and introspection servers MAY withhold actor_proofs
      entirely when policy does not permit disclosure; a strict subset
      of an existing array cannot validate (Section 7.4), so disclosure
      of an existing chain is all-or-nothing.

   *  Actors SHOULD omit target.resource when audience-level consent is
      sufficient, since resource URIs are often the most deployment-
      revealing values in a proof.

   *  Resource servers SHOULD require actor proofs only when they
      materially improve authorization, audit, or risk controls.

   *  Deployments SHOULD prefer per-resource-server policy on proof
      requirements over blanket inclusion in every token.

   *  Deployments SHOULD evaluate actor key lifetimes with correlation
      in mind: long-lived actor keys make every proof signed under them
      linkable.

12.3.  Selective Disclosure

   This profile does not define a per-claim selective-disclosure
   mechanism for proofs: chain integrity requires byte-for-byte
   preservation of each proof JWT, so selective omission of individual
   claims within a proof would break the chain.  Selective disclosure is
   therefore coarse-grained: issuance-time partial coverage of outermost
   hops, or whole-array omission.

12.4.  Audience Restriction

   A proof is carried with the outer token to whichever audiences the
   outer token serves; proofs have no independent audience scoping
   (Section 4.2).  Deployments needing audience-specific disclosure
   constraints SHOULD partition proof issuance by audience at issuance
   time rather than relying on proof-level audience restriction, which
   this profile does not provide.

12.5.  Detached Provability

   Unintended recipients can also verify proofs if they can resolve
   trusted actor keys.  Deployments SHOULD treat proof-bearing tokens as
   carrying durable, transferable participation evidence to anywhere the
   token reaches, and SHOULD scope token distribution and retention
   accordingly.

13.  IANA Considerations

13.1.  Media Type Registration

   This document requests registration of the following media type in
   the "Media Types" registry [RFC6838]:

   *  Type name: application

   *  Subtype name: actor-proof+jwt

   *  Required parameters: N/A

   *  Optional parameters: N/A

   *  Encoding considerations: 8bit; an actor proof is a JWS compact-
      serialized JWT [RFC7515] [RFC7519] consisting of base64url-encoded
      segments separated by period (.) characters.

   *  Security considerations: See Section 11 of this document and
      [RFC8725].

   *  Interoperability considerations: N/A

   *  Published specification: This document

   *  Applications that use this media type: Applications that create,
      exchange, or validate OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs.

   *  Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

   *  Additional information:

      -  Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

      -  Magic number(s): N/A

      -  File extension(s): N/A

      -  Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

   *  Person & email address to contact for further information: Karl
      McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Intended usage: COMMON

   *  Restrictions on usage: None

   *  Author: Karl McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Change controller: IETF

   The JOSE typ value actor-proof+jwt used by this document is the media
   type subtype name without the application/ prefix, following common
   JWT typing practice.

13.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

   This document requests registration of the following JWT Claims in
   the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry [RFC7519]:

   *  Claim Name: actor_proofs

   *  Claim Description: Array of actor-signed hop proofs providing
      delegation participation evidence

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: actor_proofs_complete

   *  Claim Description: Boolean indicating whether actor_proofs covers
      every visible hop in the token's act chain

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: target

   *  Claim Description: Target binding (audience and resource
      constraints) authorized by the signer of an Actor Proof JWT

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: receipt_jti

   *  Claim Description: jti of the sibling Actor Receipt JWT created
      for the same delegation hop as an Actor Proof JWT

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: proof_jti

   *  Claim Description: jti of the sibling Actor Proof JWT validated
      for the same delegation hop as an Actor Receipt JWT

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   This document reuses the prh, prh_alg, origin_jti, and sub_iss claims
   registered by [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], with the
   semantics defined there, applied to Actor Proof JWTs as profiled in
   this document.  This document requests that IANA add this document to
   the Specification Document(s) entries for those four registrations,
   and requests that their Claim Description entries be updated to cover
   both artifact types:

   *  prh: Base64url-encoded hash of the immediately preceding (older)
      entry in a chained array of delegation-evidence JWTs (Actor
      Receipts, Actor Proofs, or companion event artifacts)

   *  prh_alg: Hash algorithm identifier (from the IANA Named
      Information Hash Algorithm Registry) naming the algorithm used to
      compute prh in a delegation-evidence JWT

   *  origin_jti: The jti of the outer token associated with the hop at
      which an Actor Receipt or Actor Proof JWT was created

   *  sub_iss: Issuer or namespace authority for the subject in an Actor
      Receipt or Actor Proof JWT

13.3.  OAuth Parameters Registration

   This document requests registration of the following parameter in the
   "OAuth Parameters" registry established by [RFC6749]:

   *  Parameter name: actor_proof

   *  Parameter usage location: token request

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

13.4.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata name in
   the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry [RFC8414]:

   *  Metadata Name: actor_proofs_supported

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates support for accepting, validating,
      embedding, preserving, and extending actor-signed hop proofs

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

13.5.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata names
   in the "OAuth Protected Resource Metadata" registry [RFC9728]:

   *  Metadata Name: actor_proofs_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource expects
      delegated requests to carry valid actor proofs covering at minimum
      the outermost visible actor hop

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Metadata Name: actor_proofs_complete_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource requires
      complete proof coverage for all visible actor hops

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

13.6.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration

   This document requests registration of the following names in the
   "OAuth Token Introspection Response" registry [RFC7662]:

   *  Name: actor_proofs

   *  Description: Array of actor-signed hop proofs returned by
      introspection

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Name: actor_proofs_complete

   *  Description: Indicates whether the returned actor proofs provide
      complete visible-hop coverage

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

14.  Acknowledgments

   This document builds on the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile], on the OAuth Actor Receipts
   companion [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], on the OAuth 2.0
   Token Exchange specification [RFC8693], on the OAuth 2.0 Transaction
   Tokens work [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens], and on prior OAuth
   Working Group discussion of delegation transparency, sender-
   constrained tokens, and proof-of-possession mechanisms ([RFC7800],
   [RFC8705], [RFC9449]).  Related actor-evidence efforts and their
   relationship to this document are discussed in Section 1.2.

   Contributors and reviewers will be acknowledged in future revisions.

15.  References

15.1.  Normative References

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6750]  Jones, M. and D. Hardt, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization
              Framework: Bearer Token Usage", RFC 6750,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6750, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6750>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7523]  Jones, M., Campbell, B., and C. Mortimore, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
              Authorization Grants", RFC 7523, DOI 10.17487/RFC7523, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7523>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8705>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8707>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9728>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]
              Tulshibagwale, A., Fletcher, G., and P. Kasselman,
              "Transaction Tokens", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens-11, 30 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              transaction-tokens-11>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              profile-00, 30 April 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-profile-00>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Receipts for Delegation
              Provenance", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts-00, 4 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-receipts-00>.

   [I-D.mora-oauth-entity-profiles]
              Mora, S. C., Dingle, P., and K. McGuinness, "OAuth Entity
              Profiles", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mora-
              oauth-entity-profiles-01, 17 April 2026,
              <https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-mora-oauth-entity-
              profiles-01.txt>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

15.2.  Informative References

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9700>.

   [I-D.mw-oauth-actor-chain]
              Prasad, A., Krishnan, R., Lopez, D., and S. Addepalli,
              "Cryptographically Verifiable Actor Chains for OAuth 2.0
              Token Exchange", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mw-oauth-actor-chain-01, 15 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mw-oauth-
              actor-chain-01>.

   [I-D.liu-oauth-chain-delegation]
              Liu, D., Zhu, J., Krishnan, S., and A. Parecki,
              "Delegation Chain for OAuth 2.0", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-liu-oauth-chain-delegation-00, 7
              June 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              liu-oauth-chain-delegation-00>.

   [I-D.jiang-oauth-intent-admission]
              Jiang, Y., Lun, L., Song, Y., and F. Liu, "Intent
              Admission Assertions for Agentic Systems", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-jiang-oauth-intent-
              admission-00, 23 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-jiang-oauth-
              intent-admission-00>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]
              Looker, T., Bastian, P., and C. Bormann, "OAuth 2.0
              Attestation-Based Client Authentication", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-attestation-
              based-client-auth-11, 3 September 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              attestation-based-client-auth-11>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth]
              Schwenkschuster, A., Kasselman, P., Rose, S., Thorgersen,
              S., and N. Cam-Winget, "OAuth SPIFFE Client
              Authentication", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth-02, 15 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              spiffe-client-auth-02>.

Appendix A.  Examples

   The examples in this appendix show decoded proof contents.  The iat
   and exp values are illustrative; proof exp is set so that no inbound
   proof expires before the outer token that carries it (Section 6.2).
   The delegation scenario continues the two-hop travel example of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]: the subject alice delegates to
   an AI travel-assistant agent through the enterprise AS, and the
   agent's token is exchanged at the travel-provider AS, which adds a
   booking tool as the new outermost actor.

A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Delegation Chain with Sibling Receipts

   The following example shows an outer token that carries both
   companions:

   {
     "jti": "e8f4a2d6-3b1c-4d7e-9f5a-0c2b4d6e8f0a",
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "aud": "https://api.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-0>",
       "<receipt-1>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": true,
     "actor_proofs": [
       "<proof-0>",
       "<proof-1>"
     ],
     "actor_proofs_complete": true
   }

   The booking tool signed actor_proofs[0] when it requested the
   exchange at the travel-provider AS, before that AS issued the outer
   token:

   {
     "iss": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "target": {
       "aud": ["https://api.travel-provider.example"]
     },
     "prh": "Xm3VqLr8pTzKNdY5W2uEbc4gHf7jAsQ9R6vBnC1oD0k",
     "iat": 1776745180,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "5f2e8d91-4a6b-4c3d-8e2f-1a9b8c7d6e5f"
   }

   The AI agent signed actor_proofs[1] earlier, when the enterprise AS
   added it as the first actor hop:

   {
     "iss": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "sub_iss": "https://idp.enterprise.example",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
       "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
       "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
     },
     "target": {
       "aud": ["https://as.travel-provider.example"]
     },
     "iat": 1776741580,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "7a1c9e42-3b5d-4f6a-9c8e-2d4f6a8b0c1e"
   }

   The sibling receipts follow the same construction as the examples of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], with the proof_jti claim
   defined in Section 6.6 included at receipt creation.  Because they
   carry proof_jti, these receipts have their own jti values, and the
   newest receipt's prh hashes a different older receipt.  The newest
   receipt, signed by the travel-provider AS, carries:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "proof_jti": "5f2e8d91-4a6b-4c3d-8e2f-1a9b8c7d6e5f",
     "prh": "K9mPvXq2LwTnR7dYcE5uHb8jZa4gFs6iOk1rC3xW0eA",
     "iat": 1776745200,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "b7d1f3a5-8c2e-4a6b-9d0f-1e3a5c7b9d1f",
     "origin_jti": "e8f4a2d6-3b1c-4d7e-9f5a-0c2b4d6e8f0a"
   }

   The example verifies as follows:

   *  The current audience is within actor_proofs[0].target.aud.

   *  The older proof's target records consent for its own hop and is
      not compared with the current audience.

   *  Receipt proof_jti values link the two chains, and the newest
      receipt's origin_jti anchors the current token instance.

   The recipient verifies each proof against a pre-established key
   registered for its actor (Section 11.3).  Receipt binding does not
   prevent a compromised issuer from signing a replacement receipt.

A.2.  Example: Proofs-Only Partial Coverage

   In this example, the enterprise AS has not yet deployed proof
   support, so no proof exists for the AI-agent hop, and the travel-
   provider AS accepts a proof from the booking tool when it adds the
   tool as the new outermost actor.  The resulting access token carries
   a one-element proof chain and no receipts:

   {
     "jti": "a4c8e2f6-1b3d-4e5f-9a7c-8d6e4f2a0b1c",
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "aud": "https://api.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_proofs": [
       "<proof-0>"
     ],
     "actor_proofs_complete": false
   }

   The single proof covers the outermost hop:

   {
     "iss": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "target": {
       "aud": ["https://api.travel-provider.example"],
       "resource": ["https://api.travel-provider.example/bookings"]
     },
     "iat": 1776745180,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "9c3b7f15-6d2e-4a8b-b1f4-e5a7c9d1b3f6"
   }

   The prh claim is omitted because this is a single-element chain.
   actor_proofs_complete: false signals that the inner AI-agent hop
   carries no actor-signed evidence.  Resource servers that set
   actor_proofs_complete_required: true reject this token; others
   validate the booking tool's signed participation and its consent to
   the token's audience, and treat the agent hop as carried solely by
   the visible act chain.  The token carries no resource claim, so a
   recipient that cannot determine its effective resources from other
   context does not infer consent to target.resource (step 9 of
   Section 7).  Because no receipts are present, the proof chain carries
   no outer-token instance binding; per Section 11.4, a recipient
   requiring instance binding would require the receipts companion or a
   provisioned origin_jti.

Document History

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -01

   *  Restructured and tightened the text: each rule has one home,
      dependencies are cited rather than restated, scope and related
      work are in the Introduction, and Security Considerations point to
      the rules they rely on.

   *  Defined one lifetime rule for extension, reissuance, and refresh,
      and made an expired older proof invalid; retained proofs are
      validated against the issuer's state on refresh.

   *  Clarified instance binding: a new jti diverges from a provisioned
      origin_jti, trusted-reissuer designation excuses only that
      divergence unless retargeting is permitted, and the binding
      options are described by the trust each relies on.

   *  Tightened target binding: resource indicators match by simple
      string comparison, target.resource supplies the effective
      resources when a request names none, consent is audience-only when
      the token's resources are unknown, Token Exchange targets are not
      narrowed, and the issuer checks origin_jti and receipt_jti.

   *  Added guidance for proofs that need to survive assertion-grant
      redemption.

   *  An issuer adding a hop without a valid new proof drops the inbound
      proofs, a request that adds no hop but carries actor_proof is
      rejected, and a reissuer validates proofs before carrying them
      forward.

   *  A failed proof check removes only actor-signed evidence unless
      policy or metadata requires proofs.  Authorization based on proofs
      rests on the validated actor_proofs claim, with or without
      receipts, and nested act stays informational, per Section 4.1 of
      [RFC8693].

   *  Prohibited aud in proofs.

   *  Removed receipt-attested presenter keys as an actor-key source,
      and rejected a chain with any untrusted signing key.

   *  Aligned error codes with [RFC8693] and [RFC7523], and required
      actor_unauthorized for actor-authorization failures.

   *  Clarified completeness and introspection: actor_proofs_complete
      after extension depends on the proof count, an introspection false
      makes no completeness attestation, and filtering a covered actor
      omits the proofs.

   *  Compared sub_profile values as sets with a matching issuer check,
      and had deployment configuration supply the act.iss the actor
      signs.

   *  Allowed a TTS to include jti, carried actor_proof in Transaction
      Token requests, and deferred Transaction Token rejection at the
      resource server to the deployment.

   *  Checked alg and typ before key resolution.

   *  Removed BCP 14 keywords from guidance no other party can observe,
      named the IETF as change controller, and aligned the examples with
      the base profile.

   -00

   *  Initial version.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
