



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                             4 July 2026
Expires: 5 January 2027


                     OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs
               draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs-latest

Abstract

   This document defines OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs, an optional
   companion to the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation.  Each proof is a
   signed JSON Web Token (JWT) recording an actor's participation and
   authorized target for one hop.  The actor_proofs claim carries a
   hash-linked chain verified through trusted actor-key sources.  This
   document specifies proof submission, validation, optional links to
   actor receipts, metadata, and introspection parameters.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile/
   draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs.html.  Status information for
   this document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (mailto:oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 5 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Relationship to the Core Actor Profile
     3.1.  Relationship to the Actor Receipts Companion
     3.2.  Relationship to Other Actor-Evidence Work
   4.  Design Goals and Non-Goals
     4.1.  Deployment Fit
   5.  Actor Proofs Overview
   6.  The actor_proofs Claim
   7.  Actor Proof JWT Format
     7.1.  JOSE Header
     7.2.  Proof Claims
       7.2.1.  Identity Claims
       7.2.2.  Target Binding
       7.2.3.  Chain Linkage
       7.2.4.  Sibling Receipt Reference
       7.2.5.  Time and Uniqueness
       7.2.6.  Outer-Token Binding
       7.2.7.  Excluded Standard Claims
       7.2.8.  Extension Claims
     7.3.  Proof-Chain Linkage
   8.  Conveying Proofs at Issuance
   9.  Issuer Processing
     9.1.  Accepting a Proof for a New Actor Hop
     9.2.  Extending an Existing Proof Chain
     9.3.  Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop
     9.4.  Partial Coverage and Full Coverage
     9.5.  Transaction Token Service Rebinding
     9.6.  Sibling Receipt Issuance
   10. Consumer Processing
     10.1.  Subject Re-Expression Across Hops
     10.2.  Complete Proof Coverage
     10.3.  Use by Resource Servers
     10.4.  Introspection
   11. Discovery and Capability Signaling
     11.1.  Authorization Server Metadata
     11.2.  Protected Resource Metadata
     11.3.  Introspection Response Members
     11.4.  Out-of-Scope Discovery Signals
   12. Error Handling
     12.1.  Authorization Server and Transaction Token Service Errors
     12.2.  Resource Server Errors
     12.3.  Introspection Server Behavior
     12.4.  No New Error Codes
   13. Extensibility
   14. Security Considerations
     14.1.  Threat Model
       14.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile
       14.1.2.  Adversaries Not Mitigated
       14.1.3.  Trust Model Summary
     14.2.  Current Presenter Validation
     14.3.  Actor Key Resolution and Trust
     14.4.  Proof-to-Token Binding Limits
       14.4.1.  Target-Binding Strict Mode
     14.5.  Hash Algorithm Agility
     14.6.  Downgrade by Omission
     14.7.  Actor Key Compromise
     14.8.  Proof Chain Size
     14.9.  Proof Freshness and Replay
     14.10. Sibling Revocation Independence
   15. Privacy Considerations
     15.1.  What Proofs Disclose
     15.2.  Minimization
     15.3.  Selective Disclosure
     15.4.  Audience Restriction
     15.5.  Detached Provability
   16. IANA Considerations
     16.1.  Media Type Registration
     16.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration
     16.3.  OAuth Parameters Registration
     16.4.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration
     16.5.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration
     16.6.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration
   17. Acknowledgments
   18. References
     18.1.  Normative References
     18.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Examples
     A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Delegation Chain with Sibling Receipts
     A.2.  Example: Proofs-Only Partial Coverage
   Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] makes actor identity visible in
   delegated tokens through a common act claim.  The OAuth Actor
   Receipts companion [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] adds
   authorization-server-signed per-hop provenance.  Both are issuer
   assertions: an authorization server attests that an actor was added
   at a hop.  Nothing in either profile requires the actor's own
   cryptographic participation, so a compromised or dishonest issuer can
   fabricate the participation of an actor that never authorized the
   delegation.

   At each covered hop, the actor signs its participation and authorized
   target.  The AS validates the proof and includes it in actor_proofs;
   recipients verify the actor's signature through trusted key sources.
   The visible chain remains in act, and issuer attestations remain in
   actor_receipts when that companion is used.

   This profile adds the actor_proof request parameter, an output claim,
   and discovery metadata.  Design Goals and Non-Goals (Section 4)
   defines the scope.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses OAuth terminology from [RFC6749] and [RFC8693],
   and Transaction Token terminology from
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens].  AS, RS, and TTS denote
   authorization server, resource server, and Transaction Token Service.
   Actor Receipt and Receipt Chain follow
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].  Outer Token is the token
   associated with a proof chain, whether or not it also carries
   receipts.

   The following terms are used in this document:

   Actor Proof:  A signed JWT created and signed by the actor added at
      one visible actor hop, attesting that actor's participation and
      the target binding it authorized for that hop.

   Proof Chain:  The ordered actor_proofs array carried in a token or
      introspection response.

   Actor Signing Key:  An asymmetric key controlled by an actor and used
      to sign actor proofs.  This document does not standardize how
      actor signing keys are established; see Actor Key Resolution and
      Trust (Section 14.3).

   Actor-Key Source:  A mechanism, trusted by a recipient under explicit
      local policy, that resolves an actor identifier pair (act.iss,
      act.sub) to one or more actor verification keys.

   Target Binding:  The audience and optional resource constraints that
      the actor authorized for the token issued at its hop, carried in
      the proof's target claim.  A target binding records hop-time
      consent; it is not an audience restriction on the proof artifact
      itself.

   Sibling Receipt:  The actor receipt, if any, created for the same
      visible actor hop as a proof, under
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

   Complete Proof Coverage:  A condition in which the number of proofs
      in actor_proofs equals the number of visible actor hops in the
      token's act chain, and every proof aligns with the corresponding
      visible hop.

   Examples in this document are illustrative and omit unrelated claims,
   signatures, and validation steps that a complete deployment would
   need.

3.  Relationship to the Core Actor Profile

   This document is an extension of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile].  A token that uses the
   actor_proofs claim defined here:

   *  conforms to the actor-chain representation rules of the core actor
      profile (Section 6);

   *  uses the top-level cnf claim, when present, only for the current
      token presenter, as the core actor profile defines;

   *  gains no proof-of-possession semantics from its proofs for the
      current request (Section 14.2).

   This profile adds signed proofs, processing rules, metadata, and
   introspection parameters to the core actor representation.  The
   actor_proof request parameter conveys a new proof at issuance.  The
   underlying Token Exchange and Transaction Token request semantics
   continue to apply.

3.1.  Relationship to the Actor Receipts Companion

   Receipts are signed by the AS; proofs are signed by the actor.  A
   token MAY carry either, both, or neither, and recipients select a
   validation posture by local policy:

   *  *Receipts-only*: proofs absent or ignored; trust per
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

   *  *Proofs-only*: receipts absent or ignored; trust rests on actor-
      key resolution and actor signatures.

   *  *Belt-and-suspenders*: both validated; independent issuer-side and
      actor-side attestations for covered hops, linked by the sibling
      references in Section 9.6.

   Separate compact JWTs let deployments adopt issuer and actor evidence
   independently.  Proofs require actor signing keys and trusted key
   resolution in addition to issuer support.

   The receipts companion's distinction between historical evidence and
   current introspection status also applies to proofs.

3.2.  Relationship to Other Actor-Evidence Work

   Several contemporaneous efforts add actor-side or issuer-side
   delegation evidence to OAuth deployments; they differ from this
   profile chiefly in where evidence lives, who signs it, and who can
   verify it.  This section is informative.

   *  [I-D.mw-oauth-actor-chain] retains actor-signed step proofs at the
      AS and carries an issuer-signed cumulative commitment in the
      token.  Actor-signature verification depends on AS retention.
      This profile carries the proofs for direct recipient verification,
      increasing token size at each hop.

   *  [I-D.liu-oauth-chain-delegation] carries AS-signed hop records
      inline, optionally countersigned by the delegator.  Those fields
      carry no target binding, and records are re-signed at domain
      boundaries.

   *  [I-D.jiang-oauth-intent-admission] defines a single-hop intent
      artifact signed by the admission authority.

   The distinguishing property of this profile relative to each is a
   recipient-verifiable artifact signed by the actor itself, before
   issuance, over an explicit target binding.  These designs address
   overlapping needs; convergence is a working-group discussion this
   document aims to inform rather than preempt.

4.  Design Goals and Non-Goals

   The goals of this document are:

   *  carry actor-signed participation evidence for visible actor hops,
      independently verifiable against actor keys rather than issuer
      keys;

   *  record the target binding the actor authorized at each covered
      hop, and prevent the issuing authorization server from issuing
      beyond that binding at the covered hop;

   *  allow downstream recipients to validate actor participation
      through actor-key sources established independently of the outer
      token issuer;

   *  compose with the actor receipts companion without requiring it;

   *  add evidence through additive top-level claims, one additive token
      request parameter, and metadata signals, with no changes required
      of deployments that do not use proofs;

   *  support progressive deployment, including tokens with partial
      proof coverage.

   The non-goals of this document are:

   *  establishing, distributing, or rotating actor signing keys; this
      document profiles how recipients resolve keys through pre-
      established trust, not how that trust is created;

   *  action-level or scope-level consent semantics; the target binding
      operates at audience and resource granularity;

   *  proof revocation or online freshness signals;

   *  replay detection beyond the outer token's own replay
      characteristics;

   *  multi-actor co-signed hops;

   *  actor-side events between hops, such as re-consent to a broader
      target without a new actor hop (see Section 13);

   *  reconciling subject identifiers that differ across proofs (see
      Section 10.1);

   *  transparency logging of proofs.

4.1.  Deployment Fit

   This profile requires actors capable of signing, such as agents,
   workloads, and services with their own keys.  Actors without signing
   keys can use issuer-signed receipts instead.

   Recipients need a trusted key source for every actor whose proof they
   use (Section 14.3).  This can require more configuration than
   trusting the smaller set of receipt issuers.

   The anti-fabrication property of this profile is conditional on
   recipients requiring proofs.  An issuer that fabricates actor
   participation simply omits proofs; recipients that accept proof-less
   delegated tokens receive no protection from this profile
   (Section 14.6).

5.  Actor Proofs Overview

   An actor proof records one actor hop from the actor's side.  The
   actor being added at a hop signs a proof naming itself, the subject
   on whose behalf it acts, and the target binding it authorizes for the
   token issued at that hop.  The issuing authorization server validates
   the proof against the actor's verification key and against the token
   it is about to issue, then embeds the proof in the issued token.

   The actor_proofs array is ordered newest first and preserves older
   entries unchanged.  Index 0 corresponds to outermost act, index 1 to
   act.act, and so on.  Coverage is either complete or a contiguous
   outermost prefix; local policy or resource requirements determine
   whether partial coverage is acceptable.  Proofs and receipts align at
   indexes covered by both arrays.

   A valid proof chain records actor participation and hop-time target
   consent.  It conveys no authority and does not establish that
   delegation remains active.  Current authorization decisions MUST
   evaluate the current outer token, current policy, and current state,
   not the proof chain alone.

6.  The actor_proofs Claim

   actor_proofs is a new top-level JWT claim for tokens that conform to
   the core actor profile and this companion profile.

   actor_proofs:  OPTIONAL.  An array of strings.  Each string MUST be
      the compact serialization of a signed JWT proof as defined in
      Section 7.  When present, the array:

      *  MUST NOT be empty; issuers MUST omit the claim rather than
         including an empty array;

      *  MUST be ordered from newest covered hop to oldest covered hop;

      *  MUST NOT contain more entries than the visible actor-chain
         depth of the token's act claim;

      *  MUST represent a contiguous outermost prefix of the visible act
         chain.

   If a token carries actor_proofs, it MUST also carry an act claim
   conforming to the core actor profile.

   actor_proofs_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean JWT claim in the outer
      token.  When true, the issuer attests that actor_proofs covers
      every visible hop in the token's act chain.

      The attestation is relative to the visible chain at issuance time;
      it does not attest that the visible chain is itself unfiltered
      (see chain_complete in the core actor profile
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]).  Consumer enforcement,
      including the count-equality check, is defined in step 4 of
      Section 10.

      Issuers SHOULD set actor_proofs_complete to true for complete
      coverage and false for partial coverage; step 7 of Section 9.2
      sets a narrower rule for an issuer that extends an inbound chain.
      An absent value provides no completeness attestation; consumers
      requiring the literal value true treat absence like false.

   This document does not require every delegated token to carry
   actor_proofs.  A deployment that requires actor-signed evidence uses
   local policy or the metadata defined in Section 11 to express that
   requirement.

7.  Actor Proof JWT Format

   Each element of actor_proofs is a signed JWT represented using JWS
   compact serialization [RFC7515].

7.1.  JOSE Header

   The JOSE header of an actor proof:

   *  MUST include an asymmetric digital-signature alg value;

   *  MUST NOT use alg: none or a MAC-based symmetric algorithm;

   *  MUST include typ with the value actor-proof+jwt;

   *  SHOULD include kid when the actor's key source publishes multiple
      verification keys;

   *  MAY include crit; a proof whose crit header lists an extension
      header the consumer does not understand is invalid per [RFC7515],
      Section 4.1.11.

   Actors, issuers, and consumers MUST apply the JWT best practices in
   [RFC8725] when creating and validating proofs, except for the
   audience validation of [RFC8725], Section 3.9, from which this
   profile departs as described for aud in Section 7.2.

7.2.  Proof Claims

   The JWT payload of an actor proof uses the claims defined below,
   grouped by purpose.

7.2.1.  Identity Claims

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The identifier of the actor that signed the proof.
      It MUST equal the proof's act.sub value.

      Interpret iss within the namespace given by act.iss.  A bare iss
      MUST NOT serve as the sole key-resolution or trust index; use
      (act.iss, act.sub) as specified in Section 14.3.

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The subject identifier on whose behalf the actor
      authorized the delegation, as known to the actor at signing time.
      actor_proofs[0].sub MUST equal the outer token's top-level sub.
      Older proofs can carry differing sub values, which step 8 of
      Section 10 accepts structurally; authorization that depends on
      subject equivalence across them is subject to the continuity rules
      of Section 10.1.

   sub_iss:  OPTIONAL.  The namespace authority under which the proof
      sub value is interpreted, with the semantics defined for the
      sub_iss claim in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].  When
      absent, the namespace is determined as for an absent receipt
      sub_iss.

   act:  REQUIRED.  A single-hop actor object identifying the signing
      actor.  This object:

      *  MUST conform to the core actor profile's actor-object rules;

      *  MUST include act.sub and act.iss;

      *  MUST NOT contain cnf;

      *  MUST NOT contain a nested act.

      act supplies the namespace context and visible-hop alignment.  A
      proof is invalid if iss differs from act.sub.

      These restrictions apply to the proof's actor object.  The token's
      act chain can retain confirmation members as extension data under
      the core actor profile.  The proof's actor object omits those
      members while satisfying visible-hop alignment (step 7 of
      Section 10); this does not modify the token's actor chain.

   Proofs define no subject sub_profile claim; subject classification
   remains issuer-asserted.  Actor classification can appear in
   act.sub_profile.

7.2.2.  Target Binding

   target:  REQUIRED.  A JSON object recording the target binding the
      actor authorized for the token issued at this hop.  Members:

      target.aud:  REQUIRED.  A string or array of strings.  The
         audiences the actor authorizes for the token issued at this
         hop.

      target.resource:  OPTIONAL.  An array of URIs with the semantics
         of the resource request parameter of [RFC8707].  When present,
         it narrows the target binding beyond target.aud.

      A target binding records hop-time consent for the hop the proof
      covers.  Issuer-side enforcement at the covered hop is defined in
      Section 9.1; consumer evaluation, including the distinction
      between the newest proof and older proofs, is defined in step 9 of
      Section 10.

      Extension members MAY be defined by other specifications.  An
      extension member MUST be defined with constraining semantics only:
      its presence narrows what the actor authorized and its absence
      leaves the binding as expressed by the defined members.  Consumers
      MUST ignore unrecognized target members unless another
      specification or local agreement defines their meaning; actors
      MUST NOT rely on unrecognized extension members being enforced.

   target.aud describes the token audiences authorized at this hop, not
   the proof's recipients.  Using JWT aud for this purpose would
   incorrectly apply current-recipient audience checks to historical
   proofs.

7.2.3.  Chain Linkage

   prh:  OPTIONAL.  Previous proof hash of the next older proof in the
      chain; the oldest proof, including the sole proof of a single-
      element chain, omits it.

      The prh and prh_alg claims are reused from
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] with the same construction,
      applied to proof JWTs.  The proof chain is linked independently of
      any receipt chain carried in the same token: each companion's prh
      values hash that companion's own artifacts.

   prh_alg:  OPTIONAL.  Hash algorithm identifier naming the algorithm
      used to compute prh.  The value, consistency, and extension rules
      of the receipt prh_alg claim apply to proof chains.

      *  When absent, the default is sha-256.

      *  The proof chain's prh_alg is independent of the receipt chain's
         prh_alg in the same token; the two chains MAY use different
         algorithms.

7.2.4.  Sibling Receipt Reference

   receipt_jti:  OPTIONAL.  The jti of the sibling receipt created for
      the same hop under [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

      The actor needs a prospective receipt identifier to include this
      claim.  Most deployments instead use the receipt's proof_jti,
      which the issuer sets after validating the proof (Section 9.6).
      Consumer step 10 validates both references.

7.2.5.  Time and Uniqueness

   iat:  REQUIRED.  The time at which the proof was signed, as defined
      in [RFC7519].

   exp:  REQUIRED.  Expiration time for the proof, as defined in
      [RFC7519].

      exp needs to cover the lifetime of any token that will carry or
      inherit this proof; otherwise consumers reject older proofs in a
      valid chain prematurely.

      A proof expiring before the issued outer token causes propagation
      failure (Section 9.2).  Longer validity supports delegated
      sessions but also extends exposure to key compromise and proof
      reuse (Section 14.4).

      With instance binding through receipts in strict mode or a
      provisioned origin_jti (Section 14.4), exp MAY cover the delegated
      session.  Without instance binding, exp SHOULD be short to limit
      proof reuse.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier for the proof, as defined in
      [RFC7519].  Recipients and auditors can use jti uniqueness across
      observed tokens to detect proof re-embedding (Section 14.4).

7.2.6.  Outer-Token Binding

   origin_jti:  OPTIONAL.  The jti of the outer token issued at the hop
      this proof covers, following the pattern of the origin_jti claim
      defined in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

      This requires provisioning the prospective token identifier before
      signing.  A matching actor_proofs[0].origin_jti binds the chain to
      that token instance; a present but differing value causes
      rejection unless the outer issuer is a trusted reissuing issuer.
      Without origin_jti, instance binding requires receipt composition;
      see Section 14.4 and consumer step 9.

7.2.7.  Excluded Standard Claims

   aud:  NOT RECOMMENDED.  Actors SHOULD omit aud from proofs.

      Proofs are validated as part of outer-token processing, not as
      independent JWTs against an audience; the outer token carries the
      audience scoping for the request, and the actor's consented
      audiences live in target.aud.  This profile diverges from the
      audience-validation guidance in [RFC8725] Section 3.9 on those
      grounds.  Including aud in a proof would create ambiguity between
      an audience restriction on the proof artifact and the target
      binding, which are different statements.

7.2.8.  Extension Claims

   A proof MAY contain additional claims defined by another
   specification or by deployment policy.  Consumers ignore unrecognized
   claims unless another specification or local agreement defines their
   meaning, per [RFC7519], Section 4.

7.3.  Proof-Chain Linkage

   When an actor signs a new proof that extends an inherited proof
   chain:

   *  if there is an older proof immediately following it in the array,
      the new proof MUST include prh, and that value MUST be the
      base64url encoding without padding of the hash of the ASCII octets
      of the exact compact JWT string of that next proof;

   *  if the new proof is the only proof in the array, it MUST omit prh.

   The hash input is the exact compact JWS string, without JSON
   [RFC8259] canonicalization.  Systems that carry, store, or forward
   actor_proofs arrays MUST preserve each proof byte-for-byte.  Re-
   encoding changes the hash even if the claims remain equivalent.

8.  Conveying Proofs at Issuance

   This document defines one token request parameter:

   actor_proof:  OPTIONAL.  The compact serialization of a single actor
      proof JWT for the new outermost actor hop of the requested token.
      A request carries at most one actor_proof parameter ([RFC6749],
      Section 3.2).

   The parameter is defined for token endpoint requests that produce
   delegated tokens under the core actor profile, including OAuth 2.0
   Token Exchange [RFC8693] requests and JWT assertion grants.
   Transaction Token Service deployments convey the proof equivalently
   in the Transaction Token request, subject to
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens].

   The AS authenticates the actor and derives its identity under the
   core profile, then separately validates the proof (Section 9.1).
   actor_proof supplies participation and consent evidence; it does not
   serve as actor_token or authenticate the request.

   This document does not define a challenge mechanism by which an
   authorization server provides prospective values (such as the outer
   token's jti, a receipt's jti, or the newest inbound proof for opaque
   inbound tokens) to the actor before signing.  Deployments and
   companion profiles MAY define such mechanisms; the origin_jti and
   receipt_jti claims are the designed insertion points.

9.  Issuer Processing

   This section defines how an authorization server or Transaction Token
   Service accepts, validates, embeds, preserves, and extends
   actor_proofs.

9.1.  Accepting a Proof for a New Actor Hop

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and the token request
   carries actor_proof, the issuer:

   1.  MUST validate the proof's structure per Section 7: typ value,
       asymmetric alg, presence and JSON types of the REQUIRED claims
       iss, sub, act, target (including target.aud), iat, exp, and jti,
       and the single-hop act rules.

   2.  MUST verify that the proof's (act.iss, act.sub) pair equals the
       actor identifier pair the issuer will emit as the new outermost
       visible act object, and that the proof iss equals the proof
       act.sub.

   3.  MUST verify that the proof sub equals the top-level sub of the
       token being issued.  An issuer that re-expresses the subject at
       this hop MUST NOT embed the proof; re-expression breaks the
       alignment between actor_proofs[0].sub and the outer token's top-
       level sub that consumers verify under Section 10.

   4.  MUST resolve the actor's verification key through an actor-key
       source trusted under the issuer's local policy and validate the
       proof's signature (Section 14.3).

   5.  MUST verify that the proof's exp is no earlier than the issued
       outer token's exp, and that iat is plausible under the issuer's
       clock-skew policy.

   6.  MUST NOT issue an outer token whose aud, or whose effective
       resource indicators when the request expresses them, exceed the
       proof's target binding.  Every audience of the issued token MUST
       be present in target.aud, and every effective resource indicator
       MUST be within target.resource when that member is present.  For
       Token Exchange requests, Section 12 gives the error to return
       when the requested target cannot be satisfied within the proof's
       target binding.

   7.  MUST include the validated proof as actor_proofs[0] of the issued
       token, subject to the chain rules below.

   When no inbound actor_proofs are being preserved, the proof starts a
   new chain and MUST omit prh.  The one-element array is complete
   coverage only when the visible act chain has depth 1; Section 6
   governs how the issuer sets actor_proofs_complete in each case.

   If proof validation fails, the issuer MUST NOT embed the proof.  When
   local policy or the deployment's resource requirements require actor-
   signed evidence for the issuance, the issuer MUST fail the request
   under the error model of Section 12; otherwise it MAY issue the token
   without actor_proofs.

9.2.  Extending an Existing Proof Chain

   When an issuer adds a new outermost actor hop and also preserves an
   inbound actor_proofs array, it:

   1.  MUST validate the inbound proof chain by applying the consumer
       processing rules in Section 10 before relying on it or carrying
       it forward.

   2.  MUST verify that each inbound proof's exp is no earlier than the
       issued outer token's exp.  An inbound proof that fails this check
       is treated as failing validation under step 1.  Issuers MAY apply
       a small clock-skew margin to this comparison, consistent with the
       consumer-side skew tolerance in Section 10, but MUST NOT broadly
       accept inbound proofs whose exp precedes the issued outer token's
       exp by more than a deployment-defined skew bound.

   3.  preserves each inbound proof byte-for-byte unchanged, as required
       by Section 7.3.

   4.  MUST accept exactly one new proof, conveyed per Section 8 and
       validated per Section 9.1, for the new outermost actor hop.

   5.  MUST verify that the new proof's prh equals the hash of the exact
       compact serialization of the inbound array's newest proof,
       computed using the algorithm named by the inherited prh_alg
       (defaulting to SHA-256 when absent), and MUST verify that the new
       proof's prh_alg matches the inherited chain's value or is omitted
       when the chain omits it.  An issuer that does not support the
       inbound prh_alg MUST reject the chain rather than rehash;
       rehashing would invalidate prior actors' signatures.

   6.  MUST prepend the new proof to the inherited array.

   7.  MUST preserve actor_proofs_complete: true when the inbound
       attestation is valid and the new proof covers the added hop.
       Otherwise, the issuer MUST NOT set it to true and SHOULD set it
       to false.  This is narrower than the general rule in Section 6
       because an extending issuer establishes completeness of the
       inherited hops only through a valid inbound attestation; without
       one, it does not claim complete coverage even when the proof
       count equals the visible depth.

   Byte-for-byte preservation (Section 7.3) rules out reserializing, re-
   signing, normalizing, trimming, or otherwise altering a prior proof.

   The actor must know the newest inbound proof's exact serialization,
   or its hash and prh_alg, before signing.  For JWT inputs it can read
   actor_proofs[0].  For opaque inputs, the deployment MUST supply that
   information.  If unavailable, the issuer MUST NOT accept a proof
   without prh as a chain extension; it MAY instead start a new chain
   under Section 9.1 where local policy permits partial coverage
   (Section 9.4).

   If inbound proofs fail validation, the issuer MUST NOT propagate
   them.  It MAY continue without actor_proofs only when local policy
   permits partial or absent coverage; otherwise it MUST fail the
   request under the error model of the underlying protocol.

9.3.  Reissuance Without a New Actor Hop

   An issuer that reissues, translates, or introspects and re-emits a
   token without adding a new outermost actor hop:

   *  MAY carry an inbound actor_proofs array forward unchanged;

   *  MUST NOT accept or embed a new proof;

   *  MUST preserve actor_proofs_complete when carrying the array
      unchanged.  If it cannot attest that value, the issuer MUST drop
      the whole array.

   *  MUST NOT continue to carry an inherited actor_proofs array if it
      cannot preserve the visible hop alignment required by Section 10;

   *  MUST NOT change top-level sub while retaining proofs; doing so
      breaks alignment with actor_proofs[0].sub.

   If such an issuer changes the visible outermost actor, it has added a
   new hop and MUST follow Section 9.2.

   If reissuance exceeds the newest proof's target, the issuer MUST drop
   actor_proofs unless recipients explicitly accept divergence under
   Section 14.4.1.  Narrowing or preserving the target leaves the chain
   valid.

   If proofs are dropped while receipts remain, inherited proof_jti
   references become informational.  Recipients requiring bound siblings
   enforce proof presence through metadata or local policy.

   An AS that supports refresh tokens for delegated access tokens
   carrying proofs:

   *  needs to retain the actor_proofs array in issuer-controlled state
      across refresh, either in durable storage (for example, a token-
      state database or refresh-token state) or embedded in a self-
      contained refresh token, so each refreshed access token can carry
      the proofs forward unchanged.

   *  MUST rely on proof exp values set per Section 7.2 to accommodate
      the bounded maximum delegated-session lifetime.  Otherwise
      downstream issuers reject inbound chains under Section 9.2 as
      proofs approach expiry, and refresh loses actor-signed evidence.

   *  When that bounded lifetime would be exceeded, MUST either obtain
      fresh delegation state with fresh proofs or stop emitting
      actor_proofs, unless local policy permits partial or absent
      coverage.

9.4.  Partial Coverage and Full Coverage

   This document permits partial proof coverage for progressive
   deployment.  An issuer MAY begin a new proof chain even when older
   inner actor hops remain visible but uncovered.

   However:

   *  a partial chain still covers a contiguous outermost prefix of the
      visible actor chain, as Section 6 requires;

   *  an issuer therefore cannot skip an outer visible hop and carry a
      proof only for an inner visible hop;

   *  when local policy or resource requirements require full actor-
      signed evidence, the issuer MUST either emit complete proof
      coverage or fail the request under the error model of the
      underlying protocol.

   Partial coverage leaves the oldest hops uncovered, including the
   original subject-to-actor delegation.  Deployments needing evidence
   for that hop should enable proof support at the origin and its actors
   first.  Resource servers can require full coverage through
   actor_proofs_complete_required or local policy.

   When the issuer also filters the visible act chain (see the
   chain_complete introspection member defined in the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]), actor_proofs covers only the
   visible filtered chain.  In that case actor_proofs_complete describes
   coverage relative to the visible filtered chain, not the unfiltered
   delegation chain; recipients that need true-chain completeness MUST
   evaluate chain_complete separately.

9.5.  Transaction Token Service Rebinding

   A Transaction Token Service that establishes a new presenter and
   makes that presenter the new outermost actor follows the same proof
   rules as any other issuer that adds a new outermost actor hop, as
   defined in Section 9.2 (or Section 9.1 when no inbound actor_proofs
   exist).  The new presenter is the signing actor for the new proof;
   inherited proofs are carried forward unchanged.  This profile does
   not define additional proof claims specific to Transaction Tokens.

9.6.  Sibling Receipt Issuance

   When a deployment uses both this profile and
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], the issuer that adds a hop
   creates the receipt and embeds the proof for that hop in the same
   issuance operation.  The two artifacts are siblings: independent
   attestations of the same hop by different signers.

   This document defines the following extension claim for Actor Receipt
   JWTs, under the extension-claims rule of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]:

   proof_jti:  OPTIONAL.  The jti of the proof the receipt issuer
      validated for the same hop.  When the issuer embeds a proof and
      creates a sibling receipt for one hop, the receipt SHOULD include
      proof_jti equal to that proof's jti.

   The issuer knows the proof identifier before signing the receipt; the
   actor knows a prospective receipt identifier only if it was
   provisioned.  Byte preservation keeps proof_jti fixed, making later
   proof substitution detectable through sibling validation.

   Consumer verification of sibling references is defined in step 10 of
   Section 10.

10.  Consumer Processing

   An issuer, resource server, or other recipient that relies on
   actor_proofs MUST perform the following steps.

   1.   Validate the outer token according to its token type and the
        core actor profile.

   2.   If actor_proofs is absent, treat the token as lacking actor-
        signed evidence.  Whether that is acceptable is determined by
        local policy or by Protected Resource Metadata signals such as
        actor_proofs_required and actor_proofs_complete_required defined
        in Section 11.  If actor_proofs_complete is present with the
        value true while actor_proofs is absent, the combination is
        malformed; the recipient MUST treat this as a failed required
        check and apply the rejection rule following step 11.

   3.   Verify that actor_proofs, if present, is a non-empty JSON array
        of strings.  Verify that actor_proofs_complete, if present, is a
        JSON boolean.

   4.   Verify that the number of proofs does not exceed the visible
        actor-chain depth of the outer token.  If the outer token
        carries actor_proofs_complete: true, verify that the proof count
        exactly equals the visible actor-chain depth; if it does not,
        reject the token.

   5.   For each proof, in array order:

        *  parse the string as a compact JWT;

        *  verify that the proof's (act.iss, act.sub) pair is within the
           scope of an actor-key source the recipient trusts, before
           performing any network retrieval keyed by the proof's
           content;

        *  resolve the actor's verification key from that source
           (Section 14.3);

        *  validate the JWT signature;

        *  verify that the JOSE header uses an asymmetric digital-
           signature alg value accepted for that actor, and reject
           proofs that use alg: none or a MAC-based symmetric algorithm;

        *  verify that typ equals actor-proof+jwt;

        *  reject a proof whose crit header lists an extension header
           the consumer does not understand;

        *  verify that all REQUIRED proof claims are present and have
           the expected JSON types, including iss, sub, act, target with
           target.aud, iat, exp, and jti;

        *  verify that OPTIONAL claims used by this profile have the
           expected JSON types when present, including sub_iss,
           target.resource, prh, prh_alg, receipt_jti, and origin_jti;

        *  verify that the proof act object is single-hop, contains no
           nested act, and contains no cnf, and that the proof iss
           equals the proof act.sub;

        *  enforce exp, iat, and other JWT validity rules.  An expired
           proof is invalid even for an older hop; only the small clock-
           skew leeway of [RFC7519], Section 4.1.4 applies.

   6.   Verify proof-chain linkage:

        *  each proof other than the oldest MUST include prh;

        *  each non-oldest proof's prh MUST hash the next older proof
           using the algorithm named by prh_alg, defaulting to sha-256
           when prh_alg is absent;

        *  all proofs in the chain MUST carry the same prh_alg value (or
           all omit it); a mixed-algorithm chain MUST be rejected;

        *  the named algorithm MUST be one the recipient supports; a
           chain naming an unsupported algorithm MUST be rejected;

        *  the oldest proof MUST omit prh.

   7.   Verify visible-hop alignment:

        *  actor_proofs[0].act.sub MUST equal the outer token's act.sub,
           and actor_proofs[0].act.iss MUST equal the outer token's
           act.iss;

        *  actor_proofs[1].act.sub MUST equal the outer token's
           act.act.sub, and actor_proofs[1].act.iss MUST equal the outer
           token's act.act.iss;

        *  and so on for the number of proofs present;

        *  when act.sub_profile is present in the proof act object, the
           corresponding visible act object MUST contain act.sub_profile
           with the same value;

        *  when act.sub_profile is present only in the visible act
           object, the proof remains aligned for this profile.  The
           visible value is not attested by the actor, and recipients
           that require actor-signed evidence for actor classification
           MUST reject the proof chain or apply explicit local mapping
           rules.

   8.   Verify subject alignment:

        *  actor_proofs[0].sub MUST equal the outer token's top-level
           sub;

        *  when actor_proofs[0].sub_iss is present and the recipient has
           a top-level subject namespace authority for the outer token's
           sub from local configuration, an inbound subject token's
           claims, or another deployment-defined source, the two MUST
           identify the same namespace authority, evaluated by case-
           sensitive string comparison; treating lexically distinct
           identifiers as the same authority requires explicit trusted
           local mapping rules;

        *  older proofs MAY carry differing sub or sub_iss values.  This
           acceptance is structural only: authorization that depends on
           subject equivalence across those proofs is subject to the
           continuity rules of Section 10.1.

   9.   Evaluate outer-token binding and target binding:

        *  when actor_proofs[0].origin_jti is present and equals the
           outer token's jti, the proof chain is bound to the current
           outer-token instance; when it is present and differs, the
           chain has diverged, Section 14.4.1 decides whether the
           recipient rejects it, and an accepted value is historical
           provenance;

        *  when actor_proofs[0].origin_jti is absent, the proof chain
           carries no instance binding of its own; this is not by itself
           a validation failure;

        *  verify that every audience of the outer token is present in
           actor_proofs[0].target.aud, and, when the outer token's
           effective resource indicators are determinable from token
           claims, the introspection response, or trusted local context,
           that each is within actor_proofs[0].target.resource when that
           member is present.  A token whose audience or resources
           exceed the newest proof's target binding has also diverged;
           Section 14.4.1 decides whether the recipient rejects the
           chain and limits an accepted chain to participation evidence,
           not actor consent to the current target;

        *  target bindings of proofs other than actor_proofs[0] are
           historical consent for their own hops.  The recipient MUST
           NOT evaluate them against the current outer token's audience
           or resources.

   10.  Verify sibling references, when the token also carries
        actor_receipts validated under
        [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]:

        *  for each index i covered by both arrays, when
           actor_receipts[i] carries proof_jti, it MUST equal
           actor_proofs[i].jti, and when actor_proofs[i] carries
           receipt_jti, it MUST equal actor_receipts[i].jti;

        *  a mismatched sibling reference MUST cause the recipient to
           reject both receipt-based and proof-based provenance for the
           token;

        *  a sibling reference that names an artifact at an index not
           covered by the other array is unverifiable; recipients whose
           policy requires bound siblings MUST reject the token's proof-
           based provenance, and other recipients MUST treat the
           reference as informational only;

        *  when receipts are absent or not validated, receipt_jti values
           are informational only.

   11.  Apply any additional consumer-processing rules defined by
        companion profiles whose claims appear in the proof or outer
        token (see Section 13).  Companion-profile rules can add
        rejection conditions but cannot relax any requirement needed for
        conformance to this profile.

   If any required check fails, the recipient MUST reject the proof
   chain for the purposes of this profile and MUST apply the underlying
   protocol's error handling for the stage at which the failure
   occurred.

   A recipient that has rejected a proof chain under this profile MAY,
   under explicit local policy, extract structural information from the
   chain for use by companion profiles.  The recipient MUST NOT treat
   such partial validation as conformance with this profile, and MUST
   NOT relax the rejection requirements defined above.

10.1.  Subject Re-Expression Across Hops

   Older proofs can carry a different sub value from the current outer
   token when the subject has been re-expressed across issuer namespaces
   between hops.  This document does not define a universal subject-
   mapping algorithm.

   Accordingly:

   *  only actor_proofs[0].sub is required to equal the current outer
      token sub;

   *  older proof sub values can differ (step 8 of Section 10).

   Recipients need to be aware that permitting differing sub values
   across proofs creates a cross-subject insertion risk: a proof signed
   by a legitimate actor for an unrelated subject's delegation could
   satisfy the structural hop-alignment check when the actor identity at
   that hop matches.  An attacker who compromises any single actor
   signing key can deliberately sign proofs naming any subject and any
   target, and graft them onto a downstream chain whose re-expressed sub
   points at a victim subject.

   This profile provides no in-band mechanism for cross-namespace
   subject reconciliation.

   Deployments where subject continuity is a security requirement SHOULD
   adopt one of the following:

   *  require exact, namespace-aware matching of subject identifiers
      across all proofs (the same sub under the same namespace
      authority; see sub_iss in Section 7.2.1); or

   *  enforce explicit trusted subject-mapping rules that can positively
      confirm each distinct subject identifier refers to the same
      underlying entity.

   When neither condition is met, the recipient MUST treat subject
   continuity as unverified and MUST NOT rely on older proofs whose
   subject identifiers (sub or sub_iss) differ to support authorization
   that requires subject continuity.

10.2.  Complete Proof Coverage

   Coverage is structurally complete when all validation succeeds and
   the proof count equals the visible actor depth.  This suffices when
   local policy requires only structural completeness.

   When Protected Resource Metadata sets actor_proofs_complete_required:
   true, the token or introspection response MUST also carry
   actor_proofs_complete: true.  Recipients MUST reject tokens that fail
   the applicable completeness requirement.

10.3.  Use by Resource Servers

   Resource servers can use validated proofs as evidence input for
   authorization, diagnostics, and audit, subject to the limits in
   Section 14.1.  However, a valid proof chain:

   *  proves only that the covered actors signed their participation and
      hop-time target bindings;

   *  does not prove that the represented delegation remains active,
      authorized, or acceptable under current policy;

   *  does not prove that any authorization server validated the hop;
      that attestation is the receipts companion's role;

   *  does not replace the need to authorize the current token itself;

   *  does not convey authority, authorization, entitlement, or
      delegation rights;

   *  is not actor consent to the current request; it is actor consent
      to the hop-time issuance within the recorded target binding.

   A resource server that bases an authorization decision on proof
   content alone, without re-evaluating the current outer token and
   current policy, mis-uses this profile.

10.4.  Introspection

   When an authorization server returns actor-proof information in an
   OAuth Token Introspection response [RFC7662], it:

   *  MAY return actor_proofs using the same array format defined in
      Section 6;

   *  MAY return actor_proofs_complete to indicate whether the returned
      array provides complete coverage for the visible chain as known to
      the introspection server.

   The registered introspection response members are defined in
   Section 11.3; introspection-server failure handling is addressed in
   Section 12.3.

   For opaque tokens, the issuer stores proofs and returns them to
   authorized resource servers through introspection.  The same format
   and consumer rules apply, using the response as the outer token's
   claim set.

   An introspection response carrying proofs MUST include the members
   needed for Section 10: the token's top-level sub, the visible act
   chain, the token's aud, and the token's iss.  It SHOULD include jti
   when maintained by the server; without it, the response supplies no
   instance binding under step 9.  If present, actor_proofs_complete
   MUST be a boolean.

   An RS receiving both inline and introspected proofs MUST select an
   authoritative source under local policy.  If it consumes both,
   differing arrays or completeness values MUST cause rejection of
   proof-based provenance.

   An introspection server MUST return the full stored array or omit
   actor_proofs.  Removing an older entry breaks prh; removing the
   newest breaks hop alignment.  When the introspection server returns a
   stored array that it knows has partial coverage, it MUST include
   actor_proofs_complete: false.

   For an inactive token, the introspection server MUST NOT return
   actor_proofs or actor_proofs_complete.

   The core actor profile's chain_complete introspection member and
   actor_proofs_complete are distinct signals, exactly as described for
   receipts in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]: when
   chain_complete: false, proof coverage is complete only for the
   visible filtered chain, not the full delegation chain.

11.  Discovery and Capability Signaling

   This section defines metadata for advertising support for actor
   proofs.  It follows the claim-pair and discovery conventions defined
   in [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].

11.1.  Authorization Server Metadata

   The following parameter is defined for use in Authorization Server
   Metadata [RFC8414]:

   actor_proofs_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      authorization server advertises that it accepts the actor_proof
      token request parameter, validates proofs against actor keys, and
      embeds, preserves, or extends proof chains according to this
      document.  This value does not guarantee complete coverage for
      every visible hop in every resulting token.  When false or absent,
      the AS makes no claim of such support.

   This parameter applies equally to an authorization server that issues
   delegated JWT outputs and to a Transaction Token Service publishing
   metadata through the same framework.

11.2.  Protected Resource Metadata

   The following parameters are defined for use in Protected Resource
   Metadata [RFC9728]:

   actor_proofs_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      resource server indicates that delegated requests are expected to
      carry valid actor proofs covering at minimum the outermost visible
      actor hop.  When false or absent, the resource server makes no
      metadata declaration about actor-signed evidence requirements.

      Unlike receipt issuance, proof creation involves the actor
      directly: an actor that can sign proofs MAY use this declaration,
      together with actor_proofs_supported in Authorization Server
      Metadata, to decide to include actor_proof in its token requests.
      The declaration also serves deployment coordination and expresses
      the enforcement posture under which this profile's anti-
      fabrication property holds (Section 14.6).

   actor_proofs_complete_required:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true,
      the resource server indicates that it requires complete proof
      coverage: the proof count must equal the visible actor-chain depth
      and actor_proofs_complete must be true in the outer token or the
      introspection response.  This parameter refines
      actor_proofs_required; a resource server SHOULD NOT set
      actor_proofs_complete_required: true without also setting
      actor_proofs_required: true.  When false or absent, partial proof
      coverage is acceptable to the resource server, subject to any
      further local policy.

11.3.  Introspection Response Members

   The following members are defined for use in OAuth Token
   Introspection responses [RFC7662]:

   actor_proofs:  OPTIONAL.  An array of strings using the same syntax
      as the JWT claim of the same name.

   actor_proofs_complete:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the
      introspection response indicates that the returned actor_proofs
      cover every visible hop in the token chain as known to the
      introspection server.  When false, the response indicates that the
      returned proofs provide only partial coverage of the visible
      chain.

   Consumer use of these members is described in Section 10.4;
   introspection-server failure handling is addressed in Section 12.3.

11.4.  Out-of-Scope Discovery Signals

   This document does not define metadata for actor-key source
   discovery; recipients establish actor-key sources through explicit
   trust frameworks (Section 14.3), not through metadata defined here.
   It also does not define a metadata signal for requiring bound
   siblings (proof_jti on receipts); deployments that need bound
   siblings coordinate that requirement through deployment policy.

12.  Error Handling

   Proof validation failures use the underlying protocol's error
   mechanism for the stage at which validation occurs.

12.1.  Authorization Server and Transaction Token Service Errors

   When an authorization server or Transaction Token Service rejects a
   token request because an inbound actor_proofs chain or a newly
   submitted proof cannot be validated (signature failure, key-
   resolution failure for an actor outside the trusted key sources,
   expired proof, unsupported prh_alg, broken prh chain, hop or subject
   misalignment), it SHOULD return invalid_grant, constructed per
   [RFC8693] Section 2.2.2 and [RFC6749] Section 5.2, consistent with
   the core actor profile's error mapping for actor information that
   fails validation.

   When the requested token's audience or resources cannot be satisfied
   within the submitted proof's target binding in a Token Exchange
   request, the issuer SHOULD return invalid_target per [RFC8693]
   Section 2.2.2.

   When the failure reflects an actor-authorization decision rather than
   a structural validation failure, an issuer MAY use actor_unauthorized
   as defined in the core actor profile
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile] where applicable.

12.2.  Resource Server Errors

   When a resource server rejects a request because actor_proofs
   validation fails under Section 10, it SHOULD return invalid_token per
   the bearer-token error model in [RFC6750] Section 3.1.

   When the failure is specifically that required proofs are absent or
   coverage is incomplete (per actor_proofs_required or
   actor_proofs_complete_required), the resource server SHOULD include
   an error_description value identifying proof-coverage failure so that
   clients and operators can distinguish it from generic token-
   validation failures.

12.3.  Introspection Server Behavior

   When an introspection server cannot return proofs that the requesting
   resource server requires, it returns the introspection response per
   [RFC7662] with actor_proofs absent or with actor_proofs_complete:
   false; the resource server then applies its local policy to decide
   whether to accept the token.

   The introspection server itself does not return an OAuth error for
   missing proofs; proof presence is a property of the introspection
   response, not a precondition for it.

12.4.  No New Error Codes

   This document does not define new OAuth error codes.  The mapping
   above reuses existing codes from [RFC6749], [RFC6750], [RFC8693], and
   the core actor profile.

13.  Extensibility

   This profile composes with the extensibility framework defined in
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] and adds proof-specific
   extension surfaces:

   *  *New claims inside a proof JWT* for additional per-hop actor-
      attested attributes.  Consumers ignore unrecognized claims under
      Section 7.2 unless another specification or local agreement
      defines their meaning.

   *  *New target extension members* with constraining semantics, per
      the extension rule in Section 7.2.  Specifications needing actor
      consent at scope or action granularity extend target rather than
      redefining it.

   *  *Challenge and provisioning mechanisms* that supply prospective
      identifiers (the outer token's jti, a receipt's jti, or the newest
      inbound proof for opaque inbound tokens) to the actor before
      signing.  The origin_jti and receipt_jti claims are the designed
      insertion points; such mechanisms strengthen instance binding
      without changing proof processing.

   *  *Actor events between hops*, such as consent to a changed target.
      Companion profiles SHOULD use a JWT type distinct from actor-
      proof+jwt, a parallel outer-token array, and an anchor to a proof
      jti or defined flow identifier, following the non-hop event
      pattern of [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts].  Companion
      profiles MUST NOT add event entries to actor_proofs, which is
      reserved for the actor-signed hop proofs defined by this document.

   *  *Multi-actor co-signed hops* are out of scope for this document
      and would require a successor or companion profile with its own
      artifact structure.

   Companion profile authoring rules:

   *  Companion profiles MAY extend consumer processing under Section 10
      by adding rejection conditions; they MUST NOT relax any
      requirement needed for conformance to this profile.  This does not
      change the separately scoped partial-validation rule that follows
      step 11 of Section 10.

   *  Companion profiles that define per-hop signed artifacts SHOULD
      follow the claim-pair and discovery conventions of
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], and MAY reuse the prh and
      prh_alg chain-linkage construction.

   Conflict resolution: when a recipient implements multiple companion
   profiles whose rules conflict, local policy determines precedence.

14.  Security Considerations

   Actor proofs strengthen delegation evidence with actor-side
   signatures, but they do not replace ordinary token validation.  The
   general OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice [RFC9700] and the
   JWT best practices in [RFC8725], except its audience validation for
   proof JWTs (see aud in Section 7.2), apply to systems implementing
   this profile.

14.1.  Threat Model

   The following threats and limits assume the trust and validation
   rules in this document.

14.1.1.  Adversaries Mitigated by This Profile

   *  *Current outer-token issuer fabricating actor participation.*
      Cannot forge the actor's proof signature at proof-covered hops.
      Conditional on two recipient-side requirements: the recipient
      requires proofs for the tokens it accepts (Section 14.6), and the
      recipient resolves the actor's key through a source independent of
      the issuer being defended against (Section 14.3).

   *  *Current issuer exceeding the actor-authorized target at the
      covered hop.* Issuer-side enforcement in Section 9.1 and consumer
      step 9 detect an outer token whose audience or resources exceed
      the newest proof's signed target binding, subject to
      Section 14.4.1.

   *  *Compromised downstream issuer fabricating prior-hop
      participation.* Cannot forge prior actors' proof signatures; the
      prh chain prevents dropping or reordering inner proofs.

   *  *Token mutation in transit.* Each proof is independently signed;
      modification invalidates the proof's signature and any newer
      proof's prh.

   *  *Partial-coverage misclaim.* An issuer cannot drop an inner proof
      without breaking the prh chain; actor_proofs_complete: true cannot
      be claimed without a count matching visible chain depth.  An
      issuer can withhold coverage only from the innermost end of the
      chain, and only by beginning a new chain rather than trimming an
      inherited one, exactly as for receipts.

   *  *Proof-chain substitution, when receipts with proof_jti are
      present.* Replacing the proof array with a different harvested
      proof chain for the same visible hops mismatches the byte-
      preserved proof_jti values in the receipt chain and is rejected
      under step 10 of Section 10.

14.1.2.  Adversaries Not Mitigated

   *  *Compromised actor signing key.* Forged proofs are
      indistinguishable from legitimate ones and cannot be revoked
      individually.  Remediation: remove the key or actor from the
      trusted actor-key sources; short proof exp bounds the exposure
      window.

   *  *Issuer omission of proofs.* An issuer that fabricates
      participation simply omits actor_proofs.  Omission is a downgrade,
      not merely denial of service; the anti-fabrication property exists
      only for recipients that require proofs (Section 14.6).

   *  *Proof re-embedding within the validity window.* A party that
      received a valid proof, including the issuer it was submitted to,
      can embed it in a different token with a matching subject, actor
      chain position, and target within the proof's exp window.  See
      Section 14.4 for the binding limits and mitigations.

   *  *Malicious or coerced actor.* Proofs attest that the actor's key
      signed the participation; they do not attest intent, and they do
      not protect against an actor that colludes with a compromised
      issuer.  When issuer and actor are the same adversary, neither
      companion detects it.

   *  *Cross-subject graft with a compromised actor key.* Analogous to
      the receipts-side graft: see Section 10.1.

   *  *Replay of an entire token plus its proofs.* This profile does not
      define replay detection; proofs inherit the outer token's replay
      characteristics.

14.1.3.  Trust Model Summary

   Trust is per-actor-key and per-deployment, and not transitive across
   the chain.  A proof chain breaks at the first proof whose signing key
   cannot be resolved through an actor-key source the recipient trusts,
   even when the outer token's issuer and other proofs are trusted.
   Proofs and receipts have independent trust anchors; validating both
   yields evidence that survives compromise of either the issuer side or
   the actor side, but not simultaneous compromise of both.

14.2.  Current Presenter Validation

   The current request is always validated against the outer token's
   top-level cnf ([RFC7800]), when present, using the proof mechanism
   appropriate to the token type and deployment, such as DPoP [RFC9449]
   or mutual-TLS [RFC8705].

   An actor proof is never a substitute for that validation:

   *  A recipient MUST NOT treat a proof signature as satisfying a
      proof-of-possession requirement for the current request,
      regardless of whether the proof signing key is the same key as a
      presenter key.

   *  Recipients MUST distinguish proof JWTs (identified by the typ
      value actor-proof+jwt) from artifacts that carry current-request
      proof-of-possession semantics under [RFC7800], [RFC9449], or
      [RFC8705].

14.3.  Actor Key Resolution and Trust

   Proof validation is meaningful only if the recipient resolves actor
   verification keys through sources it trusts.

   Trust establishment requirements:

   *  A recipient needs to establish its trusted actor-key sources
      before relying on actor_proofs, through explicit pre-
      configuration, bilateral agreement, federation policy, or another
      explicit trust framework.

   *  A recipient MUST NOT treat the presence of a syntactically valid
      signed proof as sufficient grounds to trust the key that signed
      it.

   *  Step 5 of Section 10 checks that a proof's (act.iss, act.sub) pair
      is within the scope of a trusted actor-key source before any
      network retrieval keyed by the proof's content, and a recipient
      MUST NOT dereference key references supplied by the proof itself
      (such as jku or x5u header parameters) outside a pre-established
      trust framework, per [RFC8725].

   *  Key resolution and trust evaluation use the (act.iss, act.sub)
      pair.  The bare proof iss string is not a resolution index on its
      own (Section 7.2.1); actor identifiers are namespaced by act.iss,
      and identical act.sub strings under different namespace
      authorities are different actors.

   This document profiles the following resolution patterns; a
   deployment may support any subset:

   *  *Pre-established keys.* The actor's verification keys are
      registered with the recipient or its trust framework in advance,
      for example as the JWKS of a registered OAuth client at the
      authorization server, or as locally configured keys at a resource
      server.  This pattern is self-contained and provides the strongest
      independence properties.  Attestation-based client authentication
      [I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth] provides an
      interoperable way to establish such keys, with an attester
      vouching for the actor's key binding.

   *  *Receipt-attested presenter keys.* When the aligned receipt
      carries the historical presenter binding cnf defined in
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] and the deployment uses
      presenter keys to sign proofs, a recipient MAY use that cnf to
      identify the verification key.  This avoids a separate key
      registry but provides no independence from that receipt issuer,
      including the current issuer at the newest hop when that issuer
      created the newest receipt.

   *  *Federation and workload identity systems.* Deployment-defined
      resolution through workload identity or federation infrastructure.
      The trust and freshness properties are those of the underlying
      system; this document does not profile them.  OAuth SPIFFE client
      authentication [I-D.ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth] is an example
      of workload-identity key establishment that deployments can apply
      to actor signing keys.

   The independence requirement follows from the threat model: for the
   anti-fabrication property against a given issuer to hold at a hop,
   the recipient MUST resolve the actor's key for that hop through a
   source independent of that issuer.

   Actor keys, like receipt-issuer trust, are not transitive: each proof
   is validated against the recipient's own actor-key sources,
   independent of the outer token's issuer and of neighboring proofs.
   If any proof in the presented actor_proofs array is signed by a key
   the recipient cannot resolve through a trusted source, step 5 of
   Section 10 fails and the proof chain is rejected for the purposes of
   this profile.

14.4.  Proof-to-Token Binding Limits

   Without instance binding, a proof records a subject, actor, target,
   and validity window.  Any party holding it, including the issuer it
   was legitimately submitted to, can reuse it in another token matching
   that context without invalidating its signature.  The signature
   therefore evidences consent to that context, not to a particular
   token issuance.

   Available bindings, strongest first:

   *  *Receipts composition.* When the token also carries receipts, the
      receipt chain's origin_jti anchoring and strict-mode rules in
      [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] bind the token instance, and
      proof_jti (Section 9.6) binds the proof chain to that anchored
      receipt chain.  A re-embedded proof would require a matching
      fabricated receipt, which the receipt trust model prevents for
      issuers that cannot sign trusted receipts.  This is the
      RECOMMENDED posture for deployments that require instance binding.

   *  *Provisioned origin_jti.* When the issuance flow provides the
      prospective outer-token jti to the actor before signing,
      actor_proofs[0].origin_jti binds the proof to that token instance
      directly, per step 9 of Section 10.

   *  *jti uniqueness monitoring.* Recipients and audit pipelines MAY
      track proof jti values and flag the same proof appearing in more
      than one outer-token instance.  This is stateful and deployment-
      specific; this document does not define the mechanism.

   *  *Short exp.* Bounds the re-embedding window unconditionally, at
      the cost of shorter delegated-session lifetimes (Section 7.2).

   Inner proofs have no independent binding to the current token; they
   are bound to their newer neighbor through prh and inherit whatever
   binding actor_proofs[0] has.

14.4.1.  Target-Binding Strict Mode

   An outer token diverges from its proof chain when its audience or
   effective resources exceed actor_proofs[0]'s target binding, or when
   its jti differs from a present actor_proofs[0].origin_jti.  A
   recipient MUST reject a divergent proof chain unless local policy
   designates the outer token issuer as a trusted reissuing issuer.
   Recipients that have not explicitly configured a set of trusted
   reissuing issuers therefore operate in strict mode by default,
   rejecting every divergent chain.

   Strict mode is the recommended default.  Deployments accepting
   retargeted reissuance need an explicit set of trusted reissuing
   issuers, configured through local policy or an out-of-band trust
   framework.  A recipient accepting divergence MUST treat proofs only
   as participation evidence and MUST NOT infer consent to the current
   audience or resources.  With receipts, it SHOULD apply one
   reissuance-trust decision to both companions.

14.5.  Hash Algorithm Agility

   The prh and prh_alg agility rules of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] apply to proof chains
   unchanged: one algorithm per chain, whole-chain migration only, no
   rehashing of inherited artifacts, and rejection of mixed or
   unsupported algorithms.  The proof chain's algorithm is independent
   of the receipt chain's algorithm in the same token.

14.6.  Downgrade by Omission

   This profile's anti-fabrication property is conditional on
   enforcement.  A compromised issuer that wants to fabricate actor
   participation does not submit a forged proof, which would fail
   signature validation; it omits actor_proofs entirely.  A recipient
   that accepts delegated tokens without proofs has no protection from
   this profile against that issuer.

   Accordingly:

   *  Resource servers that rely on actor-signed evidence MUST require
      proofs, through actor_proofs_required (and
      actor_proofs_complete_required where inner hops matter) or
      equivalent local policy, for the delegated tokens they accept.

   *  Recipients SHOULD treat the absence of proofs from an issuer that
      advertises actor_proofs_supported: true, for a resource that
      requires them, as a signal warranting scrutiny rather than silent
      acceptance.

   Issuers cannot protect recipients that do not ask; the enforcement
   locus of this profile is the recipient.

14.7.  Actor Key Compromise

   If an actor's signing key is compromised, previously signed proofs
   and newly forged proofs under that key are indistinguishable.  The
   primary remediation is to remove the compromised key or actor from
   the recipient's trusted actor-key sources; once removed, consumers
   will reject all proofs attributed to that actor's key regardless of
   content.

   Proof exp is sized under the conditional rule in Section 7.2, which
   calls for short values without instance binding; a shorter exp limits
   the window during which proofs signed with a compromised key remain
   valid.  When a key compromise is detected, deployments SHOULD treat
   tokens carrying proofs from the affected actor as lacking trusted
   actor-signed evidence for those hops and SHOULD require fresh
   delegation with fresh proofs.

14.8.  Proof Chain Size

   Each proof is a full signed JWT, and the chain grows linearly with
   delegation depth.  A typical signed proof is 400 to 800 bytes after
   JWS compact serialization and base64url encoding, comparable to a
   receipt.  A token carrying both companions carries roughly twice the
   per-hop artifact bytes of either companion alone.  Deployments SHOULD
   verify that the outer token plus its companion arrays fits within the
   header-size budget of every component on the request path; the
   receipts companion's size guidance applies, and introspection
   delivery avoids header pressure for bearer-token clients.

14.9.  Proof Freshness and Replay

   Proofs are historical attestations of hop-time consent.  They MAY
   outlive the validity period of the outer token they were originally
   embedded in, and MAY be carried forward across reissuance and refresh
   as long as their exp permits.

   *  Proofs attest participation and target consent at signing time;
      they do not assert that the represented delegation is still active
      or that the actor would consent today.

   *  Runtime policy evaluation, including current authorization and
      current revocation state, is separate from proof validation.

   *  Replay of an entire token plus its proofs is governed by the outer
      token's replay characteristics.  Re-embedding of an individual
      proof into a different token is a distinct threat, bounded as
      described in Section 14.4.

   Deployments needing freshness signals beyond proof exp MUST obtain
   those signals from the authorization server via introspection
   ([RFC7662]), fresh token issuance, or another mechanism outside the
   scope of this profile.

14.10.  Sibling Revocation Independence

   A proof does not inherit revocation or trust state from its sibling
   receipt.  When a deployment removes a receipt issuer from its
   trusted-issuer set under [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts],
   proofs for the same hops remain valid under their own actor keys, and
   vice versa.  Recipients that require issuer-side revocation semantics
   for a hop MUST require receipt validation alongside proof validation
   rather than relying on the proof alone; the sibling references of
   Section 9.6 identify the receipt whose trust state applies to a hop.

15.  Privacy Considerations

   Proof signatures provide transferable evidence of actor participation
   and target consent.  Any holder able to resolve the actor's public
   key can verify that evidence, including after token expiration.

15.1.  What Proofs Disclose

   Proofs can expose, to any party that receives the token or
   introspection response:

   *  cryptographically transferable evidence of each covered actor's
      participation, retained and provable beyond token lifetime;

   *  actor key identifiers (kid values and resolved public keys), which
      are stable correlation handles across proofs, flows, and services;

   *  target bindings (target.aud, target.resource), which may reveal
      internal audience and resource identifiers a deployment would not
      otherwise expose to all recipients;

   *  the delegation graph of a workflow, tied together by prh chain
      hashes;

   *  subject re-expression patterns across namespaces, as with
      receipts.

15.2.  Minimization

   Deployments SHOULD minimize proof disclosure when actor-signed
   evidence is not required:

   *  Issuers and introspection servers MAY withhold actor_proofs
      entirely when policy does not permit disclosure; a strict subset
      of an existing array cannot validate (Section 10.4), so disclosure
      of an existing chain is all-or-nothing.

   *  Actors SHOULD omit target.resource when audience-level consent is
      sufficient, since resource URIs are often the most deployment-
      revealing values in a proof.

   *  Resource servers SHOULD require actor proofs only when they
      materially improve authorization, audit, or risk controls.

   *  Deployments SHOULD prefer per-resource-server policy on proof
      requirements over blanket inclusion in every token.

   *  Deployments SHOULD evaluate actor key lifetimes with correlation
      in mind: long-lived actor keys make every proof signed under them
      linkable.

15.3.  Selective Disclosure

   This profile does not define a per-claim selective-disclosure
   mechanism for proofs: chain integrity requires byte-for-byte
   preservation of each proof JWT, so selective omission of individual
   claims within a proof would break the chain.  Selective disclosure is
   coarse-grained, exactly as for receipts: issuance-time partial
   coverage of outermost hops, or whole-array omission.

15.4.  Audience Restriction

   A proof travels with the outer token to whichever audiences the outer
   token serves; proofs have no independent audience scoping
   (Section 7.2).  Deployments needing audience-specific disclosure
   constraints SHOULD partition proof issuance by audience at issuance
   time rather than relying on proof-level audience restriction, which
   this profile does not provide.

15.5.  Detached Provability

   Unintended recipients can also verify proofs if they can resolve
   trusted actor keys.  Deployments SHOULD treat proof-bearing tokens as
   carrying durable, transferable participation evidence to anywhere the
   token reaches, and SHOULD scope token distribution and retention
   accordingly.

16.  IANA Considerations

16.1.  Media Type Registration

   This document requests registration of the following media type in
   the "Media Types" registry [RFC6838]:

   *  Type name: application

   *  Subtype name: actor-proof+jwt

   *  Required parameters: N/A

   *  Optional parameters: N/A

   *  Encoding considerations: 8bit; an actor proof is a JWS compact-
      serialized JWT [RFC7515] [RFC7519] consisting of base64url-encoded
      segments separated by period (.) characters.

   *  Security considerations: See Section 14 of this document and
      [RFC8725].

   *  Interoperability considerations: N/A

   *  Published specification: This document

   *  Applications that use this media type: Applications that create,
      exchange, or validate OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs.

   *  Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

   *  Additional information:

      -  Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

      -  Magic number(s): N/A

      -  File extension(s): N/A

      -  Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

   *  Person & email address to contact for further information: Karl
      McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Intended usage: COMMON

   *  Restrictions on usage: None

   *  Author: Karl McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   *  Change controller: IETF

   The JOSE typ value actor-proof+jwt used by this document is the media
   type subtype name without the application/ prefix, following common
   JWT typing practice.

16.2.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

   This document requests registration of the following JWT Claims in
   the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry [RFC7519]:

   *  Claim Name: actor_proofs

   *  Claim Description: Array of actor-signed hop proofs providing
      delegation participation evidence

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: actor_proofs_complete

   *  Claim Description: Boolean indicating whether actor_proofs covers
      every visible hop in the token's act chain

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: target

   *  Claim Description: Target binding (audience and resource
      constraints) authorized by the signer of an Actor Proof JWT

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: receipt_jti

   *  Claim Description: jti of the sibling Actor Receipt JWT created
      for the same delegation hop as an Actor Proof JWT

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Claim Name: proof_jti

   *  Claim Description: jti of the sibling Actor Proof JWT validated
      for the same delegation hop as an Actor Receipt JWT

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   This document reuses the prh, prh_alg, origin_jti, and sub_iss claims
   registered by [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], with the
   semantics defined there, applied to Actor Proof JWTs as profiled in
   this document.  This document requests that IANA add this document to
   the Specification Document(s) entries for those four registrations,
   and requests that their Claim Description entries be updated to cover
   both artifact types:

   *  prh: Base64url-encoded hash of the immediately preceding (older)
      entry in a chained array of delegation-evidence JWTs (Actor
      Receipts, Actor Proofs, or companion event artifacts)

   *  prh_alg: Hash algorithm identifier (from the IANA Named
      Information Hash Algorithm Registry) naming the algorithm used to
      compute prh in a delegation-evidence JWT

   *  origin_jti: The jti of the outer token associated with the hop at
      which an Actor Receipt or Actor Proof JWT was created

   *  sub_iss: Issuer or namespace authority for the subject in an Actor
      Receipt or Actor Proof JWT

16.3.  OAuth Parameters Registration

   This document requests registration of the following parameter in the
   "OAuth Parameters" registry established by [RFC6749]:

   *  Parameter name: actor_proof

   *  Parameter usage location: token request

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

16.4.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata name in
   the "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry [RFC8414]:

   *  Metadata Name: actor_proofs_supported

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates support for accepting, validating,
      embedding, preserving, and extending actor-signed hop proofs

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

16.5.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registration

   This document requests registration of the following metadata names
   in the "OAuth Protected Resource Metadata" registry [RFC9728]:

   *  Metadata Name: actor_proofs_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource expects
      delegated requests to carry valid actor proofs covering at minimum
      the outermost visible actor hop

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Metadata Name: actor_proofs_complete_required

   *  Metadata Description: Indicates that the resource requires
      complete proof coverage for all visible actor hops

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

16.6.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registration

   This document requests registration of the following names in the
   "OAuth Token Introspection Response" registry [RFC7662]:

   *  Name: actor_proofs

   *  Description: Array of actor-signed hop proofs returned by
      introspection

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

   *  Name: actor_proofs_complete

   *  Description: Indicates whether the returned actor proofs provide
      complete visible-hop coverage

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document

17.  Acknowledgments

   This document builds on the OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile], on the OAuth Actor Receipts
   companion [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], on the OAuth 2.0
   Token Exchange specification [RFC8693], on the OAuth 2.0 Transaction
   Tokens work [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens], and on prior OAuth
   Working Group discussion of delegation transparency, sender-
   constrained tokens, and proof-of-possession mechanisms ([RFC7800],
   [RFC8705], [RFC9449]).  Related actor-evidence efforts and their
   relationship to this document are discussed in Section 3.2.

   Contributors and reviewers will be acknowledged in future revisions.

18.  References

18.1.  Normative References

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6750]  Jones, M. and D. Hardt, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization
              Framework: Bearer Token Usage", RFC 6750,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6750, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6750>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8705>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8707>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9728>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]
              Tulshibagwale, A., Fletcher, G., and P. Kasselman,
              "Transaction Tokens", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens-11, 30 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              transaction-tokens-11>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-profile]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              profile-00, 30 April 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-profile-00>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Receipts for Delegation
              Provenance", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts-00, 4 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-receipts-00>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

18.2.  Informative References

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9700>.

   [I-D.mw-oauth-actor-chain]
              Prasad, A., Krishnan, R., Lopez, D., and S. Addepalli,
              "Cryptographically Verifiable Actor Chains for OAuth 2.0
              Token Exchange", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mw-oauth-actor-chain-01, 15 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mw-oauth-
              actor-chain-01>.

   [I-D.liu-oauth-chain-delegation]
              Liu, D., Zhu, J., Krishnan, S., and A. Parecki,
              "Delegation Chain for OAuth 2.0", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-liu-oauth-chain-delegation-00, 7
              June 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              liu-oauth-chain-delegation-00>.

   [I-D.jiang-oauth-intent-admission]
              Jiang, Y., Lun, L., Song, Y., and F. Liu, "Intent
              Admission Assertions for Agentic Systems", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-jiang-oauth-intent-
              admission-00, 23 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-jiang-oauth-
              intent-admission-00>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth]
              Looker, T., Bastian, P., and C. Bormann, "OAuth 2.0
              Attestation-Based Client Authentication", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-attestation-
              based-client-auth-11, 3 September 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              attestation-based-client-auth-11>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth]
              Schwenkschuster, A., Kasselman, P., Rose, S., Thorgersen,
              S., and N. Cam-Winget, "OAuth SPIFFE Client
              Authentication", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth-02, 15 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              spiffe-client-auth-02>.

Appendix A.  Examples

   The examples in this appendix show decoded proof contents.  Real
   proofs are compact-signed JWT strings carried in the actor_proofs
   array.  The iat and exp values shown are illustrative only; in
   deployments, proof exp is set per Section 7.2 and Section 9.2 so that
   no inbound proof expires before the outer token that carries it.  The
   delegation scenario continues the two-hop travel example of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]: the subject alice delegates to
   an AI travel-assistant agent through the enterprise AS, and the
   agent's token is exchanged at the travel-provider AS, which adds a
   booking tool as the new outermost actor.

A.1.  Example: Two-Hop Delegation Chain with Sibling Receipts

   The outer token carries both companions:

   {
     "jti": "e8f4a2d6-3b1c-4d7e-9f5a-0c2b4d6e8f0a",
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "aud": "https://api.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_receipts": [
       "<receipt-0>",
       "<receipt-1>"
     ],
     "actor_receipts_complete": true,
     "actor_proofs": [
       "<proof-0>",
       "<proof-1>"
     ],
     "actor_proofs_complete": true
   }

   actor_proofs[0] was signed by the booking tool when it requested the
   exchange at the travel-provider AS, before that AS issued the outer
   token:

   {
     "iss": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "target": {
       "aud": ["https://api.travel-provider.example"]
     },
     "prh": "Xm3VqLr8pTzKNdY5W2uEbc4gHf7jAsQ9R6vBnC1oD0k",
     "iat": 1776745180,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "5f2e8d91-4a6b-4c3d-8e2f-1a9b8c7d6e5f"
   }

   actor_proofs[1] was signed earlier by the AI agent when the
   enterprise AS added it as the first actor hop:

   {
     "iss": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "sub_iss": "https://idp.enterprise.example",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
       "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
       "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
     },
     "target": {
       "aud": ["https://as.travel-provider.example"]
     },
     "iat": 1776741580,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "7a1c9e42-3b5d-4f6a-9c8e-2d4f6a8b0c1e"
   }

   The sibling receipts follow the same construction as the examples of
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts], with the proof_jti claim
   defined in Section 9.6 included at receipt creation.  Because these
   receipts carry proof_jti, they are different byte strings from the
   receipts shown in that document's examples: they carry their own jti
   values, and the newest receipt's prh differs because it hashes a
   different older receipt.  The newest receipt, signed by the travel-
   provider AS, carries:

   {
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "proof_jti": "5f2e8d91-4a6b-4c3d-8e2f-1a9b8c7d6e5f",
     "prh": "K9mPvXq2LwTnR7dYcE5uHb8jZa4gFs6iOk1rC3xW0eA",
     "iat": 1776745200,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "b7d1f3a5-8c2e-4a6b-9d0f-1e3a5c7b9d1f",
     "origin_jti": "e8f4a2d6-3b1c-4d7e-9f5a-0c2b4d6e8f0a"
   }

   The example verifies as follows:

   *  The current audience is within actor_proofs[0].target.aud.

   *  The older proof's target records consent for its own hop and is
      not compared with the current audience.

   *  Receipt proof_jti links the two chains, and the leading receipt's
      origin_jti anchors the current token instance.

   The proofs use the presenter keys identified by sibling receipts
   (ToolJKT and AgentJKT).  This illustrates receipt-attested key
   resolution, which provides no protection against fabrication by the
   receipt issuer itself (Section 14.3).  Receipt binding also does not
   prevent a compromised issuer from signing a replacement receipt.

A.2.  Example: Proofs-Only Partial Coverage

   Suppose the enterprise AS has not yet deployed proof support, so no
   proof exists for the AI-agent hop, and the travel-provider AS accepts
   a proof from the booking tool when it adds the tool as the new
   outermost actor.  The resulting access token carries a one-element
   proof chain and no receipts:

   {
     "jti": "a4c8e2f6-1b3d-4e5f-9a7c-8d6e4f2a0b1c",
     "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
     "aud": "https://api.travel-provider.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service",
       "act": {
         "sub": "https://agents.enterprise.example/travel-assistant",
         "iss": "https://as.enterprise.example",
         "sub_profile": "ai_agent"
       }
     },
     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "ToolJKT"
     },
     "actor_proofs": [
       "<proof-0>"
     ],
     "actor_proofs_complete": false
   }

   The single proof covers the outermost hop:

   {
     "iss": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
     "sub": "https://idp.enterprise.example/users/alice",
     "act": {
       "sub": "https://tools.travel-provider.example/booking-tool",
       "iss": "https://as.travel-provider.example",
       "sub_profile": "service"
     },
     "target": {
       "aud": ["https://api.travel-provider.example"],
       "resource": ["https://api.travel-provider.example/bookings"]
     },
     "iat": 1776745180,
     "exp": 1776832000,
     "jti": "9c3b7f15-6d2e-4a8b-b1f4-e5a7c9d1b3f6"
   }

   prh is omitted because this is a single-element chain.
   actor_proofs_complete: false signals to recipients that the inner AI-
   agent hop carries no actor-signed evidence.  Resource servers that
   set actor_proofs_complete_required: true in their Protected Resource
   Metadata reject this token; resource servers that accept partial
   coverage validate the booking tool's signed participation and target
   consent, and treat the agent hop as carried solely by the visible act
   chain.  Because no receipts are present, the proof chain carries no
   outer-token instance binding; per Section 14.4, a recipient requiring
   instance binding would require the receipts companion or a
   provisioned origin_jti.

Document History

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -01

   *  Consolidated and tightened the text throughout.

   *  An issuer now drops inherited proofs when reissuance exceeds any
      part of the newest proof's target, not only its audience.

   *  Distinguished a mismatched origin_jti, which consumer processing
      rejects unless the outer issuer is a trusted reissuer, from an
      absent one.

   *  Removed an example claim that receipt composition stops a
      compromised issuer from re-embedding a proof.

   *  Reconciled exp guidance, aligned expiry handling with [RFC7519],
      and removed BCP 14 keywords from storage, trust-setup, and rollout
      guidance.

   *  Consolidated duplicated requirements into single homes and cited
      dependencies instead of restating them.

   *  Resolved the remaining duplicate-rule conflicts: companion rules
      cannot relax conformance requirements, [RFC8725] applies except
      its audience validation, and Strict Mode governs every divergence.

   *  Removed the unconditional recommendation for short proof exp in
      favor of the claim's conditional sizing rule.

   *  Aligned subject-continuity handling, the introspection partial-
      coverage flag, and the proof actor object's sub_profile rule with
      Receipts.

   *  Used the base profile's example identifiers for the travel
      assistant and booking tool.

   *  Clarified that proof actor-object restrictions apply separately
      from confirmation extensions in the token's actor chain.

   -00

   *  Initial version.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
